
PERRY enters.  The room is full of staffers who include 
Lois, Clark, JIMMY, CAT, etc.

			PERRY
	Okay, people, I know we're working
	late, but this is a big one.  I got 
	us an extra half-hour before we go 
	to press.  Let's make the most of 
	it.
		(to Lois, Clark)
	Lane, Kent.  One of you should be
	writing.

Lois and Clark trade looks.  Clark indicates he wants to 
take it.

			LOIS
	Go ahead.

Clark takes off.



At SUPER-SPEED, Clark flips through his Reporter's 
Notebook.  He examines several pages of copy on the desk 
and begins to edit the story in a blur on the word 
processor.  He scrawls a note on a pad.  It reads: "Lois, 
be right back.  CK."



Perry now turns his attention to Jimmy.

			PERRY
	Jimmy, how's the lab coming with
	the slide from the telescope?

			JIMMY
	They said it'd be ready on time.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					7.


CONTINUED:

			PERRY
	I want you to go down to the lab,
	grab one of those folding chairs,
	set your fanny down and wait.  The 
	second that picture's ready, I want 
	it in lay-out.

			JIMMY
	Okay, but I was thinking I could be
	more help...

			PERRY
		(glares at him)
	Jimmy, I an in the 'order mode,'
	not the 'discuss mode.' Now which 
	one are you in?

			JIMMY
	The, uh, 'Grab-A-Chair-At-The-Lab
	Mode.'

			LOIS
	Good choice.

Jimmy takes off.  Perry turns to Cat.

			PERRY
	Now, Cat, where were you when the
	lights went out this morning?

			CAT
	In bed.

			LOIS
	What a surprise.

			PERRY
	I'm talking side-bar here, ladies.
	Cat, I want you to call all those 
	big names in that Rolodex you keep 
	locked up in your desk and get me 
	some human interest.  If you need 
	help, ask Applegate.

Applegate smiles at Cat, eager to get the chance.  Cat 
turns to Perry.

			CAT
	I work alone.

			PERRY
	Then do it fast.
		(claps hands)
	Okay, boys and girls, it's show
	time.  Let's go.

				CUT TO:


ALL SHOOK UP					8.



Daitch has his eye glued to the eyepiece of a huge 
telescope.  Wind blows across his face and he hears a 
WHOOSH.  Superman has arrived.

			SUPERMAN
	You wanted to see me, Professor
	Daitch?

			DAITCH
		(startled)
	Superman!

			SUPERMAN
	Mind if I take a look?

Daitch steps aside to allow Superman access to the 
eyepiece.

			DAITCH
	I thought you had enhanced visual
	abilities.

			SUPERMAN
	I do.  But I have my limits, too.

Superman puts his eye to the eyepiece.


INSERT - THE ASTEROID

A large chunk of the cosmos, hurtling through space.


BACK TO SCENE

Superman steps back from the telescope.

			SUPERMAN
	Fascinating what kind of surprises
	the universe can turn up, isn't it?

			DAITCH
	'Nightfall' is close to seventeen
	miles across.  It's travelling 
	close to 30-thousand miles an hour.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					9.


CONTINUED:

			SUPERMAN
	You told Kent and the other 
	reporters as much at the news 
	conference.  Why an I here?

Daitch makes a few quick strokes on a nearby keyboard.  It 
calls up a stylized, digital countdown on a big screen 
behind them, complete with the EPRAD space logo.  The 
clock reads the hours, minutes and seconds as they count 
down.

	   EPRAD COMMAND AND CONTROL
		       99:54:23
	    Estimated Time to Impact

			DAITCH
	If my calculations are correct, in 
	a little over four days, it's going 
	to hit the Earth.
		(beat)
	The sky, literally, is falling.

			SUPERMAN
	What kind of damage could that
	cause?

			DAITCH
		(nods)
	Superman, this could knock the 
	Earth off its axis.  Even throw us 
	out of our current solar orbit.
	It's far larger than the meteor 
	that caused the extinction of the 
	dinosaurs.  The crater alone will 
	throw enough dust into the air to 
	start a new ice age.

Superman's brow furrows.

			DAITCH (Cont'd)
	I know this is a lot to get used
	to.

			SUPERMAN
	No. It's not that.  But we're not
	alone.

Superman speaks to a nearby door.

			SUPERMAN (Cont'd)
	Might as well come out, gentlemen.
	I know you're there.

The door opens.  A military man with all the medals to 
prove it, GENERAL ZEITLIN, approaches.  He's followed by a
high-ranking member of the government, JOHN COSGROVE.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					10.


CONTINUED:  2

			ZEITLIN
	Superman, my apologies.  We felt 
	you should hear the news from 
	Professor Daitch before we were
	introduced.
		(extends hand)
	I'm General Robert Zeitlin.  This
	is Secretary John Cosgrove.

Everyone shakes hands, says hello.

			SUPERMAN
	You can't keep this a secret.

			COSGROVE
	The President will tell the public, 
	but he wants to avoid panic, too.
	He simply wants to get you on board
	before making an announcement.

			SUPERMAN
	I take it this means you agree with
	the professor's calculations.

			ZEITLIN
	Yes.  But, unfortunately with 
	something this size, there is no 
	military option.  We're looking 
	into modifying a rocket but, at 
	best, it would be a fifty-fifty 
	proposition.

			COSGROVE
	We need to improve those odds.  The 
	country needs your help, Superman.
	So does the world.

			SUPERMAN
	Of course.  But you're asking me to 
	fly a million miles into space to 
	stop a piece of rock the size of 
	Metropolis that's travelling faster 
	than any spacecraft we've ever 
	made.

			COSGROVE
	Can you?

			SUPERMAN
		(considers this)
	I don't know.

			ZEITLIN
	You're our only hope.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					11.


CONTINUED:  3

			SUPERMAN
		(to Daitch)
	I guess we're about to find out
	what my limits really are.

				CUT TO:



Perry is going over Lois's copy.  Stone-faced.  Lois chews
her lip, waiting for the analysis.  A beat, finally Perry 
breaks into a grin.

			PERRY
	If Elvis had gone into the 
	newspaper business, held have 
	written like this.

			LOIS
	Fifteen minutes to spare.

			PERRY
	I tell you, Lois, when the Planet's
	running, you can't stop it...

They hear a WHOOSH.  Suddenly, Superman is on the balcony.

			LOIS
	Superman!

			SUPERMAN
	We need to talk.

			LOIS
		(to Perry)
	Can we use your office?

			SUPERMAN
	There's no time, Lois.

			PERRY
	You look like a man with something
	burnin' a hole in his gut.

			LOIS
	It's the asteroid, isn't it?

Superman nods.  Lois flips open her Reporter's Notebook.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
		(to Perry)
	I told you.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					12.


CONTINUED:

Lois turns her attention back to Superman.  Perry turns 
toward the Planet staffers who have been observing and 
bellows:

			PERRY
	Stop the presses!


NEWSPAPER EFFECT

As it spins, eventually showing us the headline.  It is:
PANIC IN THE SKY: Superman To The Rescue.



The newsroom has stopped.  All eyes are on the TV, the 
focal point of all communal experience from the Kennedy
assassination to this moment.  WE SEE a FULL-SCREEN
GRAPHIC: "SUPERMAN FOR THE EARTH."

			ANNOUNCER (V.O.)
	Continuing our special LexTV
	Report:  Superman For the Earth --
	And now, here is Frank Madison at
	EPRAD Command and Control.

WE SEE reporter Madison on screen.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					15.


CONTINUED:

			MADISON (T.V.)
	Several hours ago, Superman said 
	his final goodbyes to the crowd.
	He was described as calm, but 
	determined.  Witnesses say his last 
	words were to the President -- I'm 
	quoting now -- "I'll do my best.'
	And with that he took off, gaining 
	speed as he rose into the sky.  And 
	this time the entire world was 
	watching.


MONTAGE

of various international newspaper editions. over this, 
we hear JAPANESE, SPANISH, SHONA, and RUSSIAN in voice 
over.  The only word common in all the broadcasts is 
"Superman."



Where all eyes are, again, on the TV.  The EPRAD time 
clock reads 79:56:17 and counting...

			MADISON (T.V.)
		(finger to ear)
	I'm being told we have a
	transmission from Superman.  Let's 
	take that 'live' feed, direct from 
	mission control.

On screen, WE SEE the "Superman for the Earth" logo.
Underneath it is the chyron: "Voice of SUPERMAN."  We hear
Superman's distorted voice:

			SUPERMAN (V.O.)
	I can see it now.  In fact, it's 
	hard to see anything else.  It's 
	immense.

On a tracking monitor, Superman is a little speck next to 
a much bigger speck.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Roger, Superman.  We copy you on
	the ground.  Do you have stress 
	point acquisition in visual?

			SUPERMAN (V.O.)
	Yes.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Stand by for final briefing
	procedure.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					16.


CONTINUED:

			SUPERMAN (V.O.)
	I know what I have to do.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Superman, you're cleared for
	initiation on your cue.
		(beat)
	And there's a lot of people here 
	who want you to know you're the 
	best friend Earth's ever had.

			SUPERMAN (V.O.)
	Thanks.  Well, here I go.

Lois winces.  She's scared.

				CUT TO:


The transmission goes to LOUD STATIC.  The Planet staffers 
react with shock and concern.  A beat, then:

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	This is EPRAD control.  We have
	lost transmission with Superman.

It's tense, it's sad.  Everyone looks to Lois for an 
answer.

			LOIS
	His microphone went out.  He's
	fine.  He's got to be.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					17.


CONTINUED:

Lois says this as if to reassure herself.  Clearly, he may 
not be fine.  Somebody has to do something.  Perry does.

			PERRY
	We're professionals.  We have a job
	to do.  Let's get back to doing it.

				CUT TO:


Where LUTHOR, like the rest of the world, watches
television.  He listens to the STATIC with a satisfied
smile on his face.  Takes another pull on his cigar.
Turns to his man, ASABI.

			LUTHOR
	Static, Asabi, implies the absence
	of anything.  It's a beautiful 
	sound, wouldn't you agree?

Luthor puffs, smiles a self-satisfied smile.

			ASABI
	Quite pleasing, sir.

Luthor's smile disappears.  He slams his palm on the desk.

			LUTHOR
	I have been deprived of my greatest
	victory over Superman and you think
	I should be pleased?
		(looks away)
	Leave me.

Asabi, consfused by this psychotic leap, exits.  Luthor 
glowers, looks out the window, toward the sky.

				CUT TO:


Clark sits at a table across from DR. JERRI McCORKLE, a 
department shrink who takes notes about everything Clark 
says.

			DR. McCORKLE
	Do you remember having a favorite
	color?

			CLARK
	Blue.  No, wait a minute.  Red.  I
	don't know, Doctor.  Maybe yellow.

			DR. McCORKLE
	Don't try so hard, there's no right
	or wrong answer.  Let's try 
	something else.  Everything you 
	remember about the last few days.

			CLARK
	Only the shelter.  Then the police 
	officer taking me here.  That's it, 
	I'm afraid.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					21.


CONTINUED:

			DR. McCORKLE
	Have you eaten?
		(off his nod)
	Fine.  Now, if I told you your name 
	was Clark Kent and that you were a 
	reporter for the Daily Planet, what 
	would your reaction be?

			CLARK
	Clark Kent?  Do you know that for a
	fact?

We realize we are watching Clark through a one-way mirror. 
INSPECTOR HENDERSON stands on the outside looking in.  
Lois approaches.

			LOIS
	Henderson, this better be good.
	I'm working the asteroid story with
	my partner AWOL and...
		(sees Clark)
	What's he doing here?

			HENDERSON
	He doesn't know.  We picked him up 
	at the Fifth Street Mission.  I was 
	working when they brought him in.
	I gave you a call.
		(into mic)
	Doctor?

			LOIS
		(waving)
	Clark!

			HENDERSON
	Can't see you, Lois.  It's a 
	one-way.  Wouldn't matter, though.
	He doesn't remember a thing.  His 
	name, where he works, me, you.

Dr. McCorkle emerges from the room.

			HENDERSON (Cont'd)
	Doctor Jerri McCorkle.  Lois Lane.
	Doc's our department shrink.

Lois and Dr. McCorkle AD-LIB hellos.

			LOIS
	What could have caused this?

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					22.


CONTINUED:  2

			DR. McCORKLE
	Several possibilities.  I'd guess
	anxiety caused by this asteroid 
	could be a factor.  On the other 
	hand, these cases are often 
	triggered by some kind of physical 
	trauma.

			LOIS
	He got knocked down by a car and 
	hit his head!  But that was the day 
	before yesterday...

			DR. McCORKLE
	It could be a delayed reaction.

			LOIS
	Is he going to be okay?

			DR. MCCORKLE
	Physically, he's fine.  Whether 
	he's going to regain his memory 
	immediately, I don't know.  Based 
	on the battery of questions we ask, 
	it seems Clark suffers from what we 
	call the 'Superman Complex.'

			LOIS
		(wryly)
	Don't we all?

			DR. McCORKLE
	What I mean is that he's a chronic 
	do-gooder who thinks he can handle 
	anything.  This kind of setback can 
	be very frustrating.

			LOIS
	Tell me what to do.

			DR. McCORKLE
	Clark needs to be surrounded by 
	familiar people, and do familiar 
	things.  It will come back to him 
	in time.  Be patient with him.

			HENDERSON
	That's asking a lot, doc.

			LOIS
		(defensive)
	I can be patient.

				CUT TO:


ALL SHOOK UP					23.



Lois walks Clark to his desk.

			LOIS
	This is your desk.  Look familiar?

			CLARK
	I'm sorry.  No.

			LOIS
	You always come in and grab a donut 
	from the coffee area.  You usually 
	like the cake things with the 
	frosting.  They're a little stale 
	now.  Are you hungry?

			CLARK
	I can't remember anything.  I'm not
	starving.  I'm fine.

Lois looks at Clark who, in his old clothes and broken 
glasses, looks anything but fine.  She fishes in his 
drawer, finds a pair of glasses, gives then to him.

			LOIS
	You keep a second pair.

Clark puts them on.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Now look at me, Clark.  You mean
	you really don't remember anything?

			CLARK
	We're a reporting team, isn't that
	what you said?

			LOIS
	I'm more like the... 'senior
	partner.'

			CLARK
	So you call the shots?

			LOIS
	You could say that.

			CLARK
	Okay.  What should I do?

Lois looks at Clark.  Alternating between suspicion and a 
fear of taking unfair advantage.  Lois sighs.  Lois can't 
stand lying to a defenseless man.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					24.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	We're full partners.  Nobody works 
	for anybody.  Although, for the 
	immediate future, you may want to 
	follow my lead.

			CLARK
	Probably a good idea.

Cat approaches.  Sees his outfit.

			CAT
	Clark, what's the fashion statement
	here?

			LOIS
	The statement is: Clark has
	amnesia.
		(to Clark)
	This is Cat Grant.  She writes a 
	gossip column for the paper.  We 
	write news.

			CAT
	Is there a punchline I'm missing?

			CLARK
	She's telling the truth Miss Grant.
	I don't remember much of anything.

Cat takes a skeptical beat, then says to Lois:

			CAT
	Excuse us just a moment.

Cat steers Clark away.  Speaks with complete sincerity.

			CAT (Cont'd)
	Oh, honey, it's me, Cat.  How can 
	you not remember what we've meant 
	to each other?

			CLARK
	I guess we work together, huh?

			CAT
	We do a lot more than that.

			CLARK
	We do?

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					25.


CONTINUED: 2

			CAT
		(in a whisper)
	We've kept it a secret.  You're so
	worried about what people think.
		(indicates Lois)
	Especially her.
		(grief-stricken)
	Now you don't even remember 'us.'

Cat begins to cry.  Clark tentatively takes her in his 
arms.  She pulls him tight into a sensual hug.

			CAT (Cont'd)
	Does this refresh your memory?

Perry approaches, clears his throat.  Cat separates, moves 
to her desk.  Perry sticks out his hand to Clark.

			PERRY
	Perry White, son.  Sorry to hear
	about what's happened here.
		(off Jimmy's approach)
	This here's Jimmy Olsen.

			JIMMY
	Hi, Clark.  Actually, I always call
	you 'C.K.,' C.K.

			PERRY
		(to Clark)
	Now, how you feelin'?  Up to going
	to a news conference?

			CLARK
	I think so.

			PERRY
		(to Lois)
	Something's cookin' at EPRAD.
		(to Clark)
	And, no offense, but why don't you 
	go check out your locker, see if 
	you got a change of clothes?



Perry, Jimmy, Cat, Applegate and others watch the "live" 
feed of the EPRAD news conference on his television set 
with serious faces.  Perry nods.

			PERRY
	Kent asked a question.  Good sign.

			ZEITLIN (T.V.)
	We're trying to stop a catastrophe.  
	Our opinion is that Superman knows 
	how to find us much easier than we 
	know how to find him.

			PERRY
	I'll be in my office.

Perry takes off.  Jimmy follows after him.

			JIMMY
	Chief, I need to talk to you.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					28.


CONTINUED:

			PERRY
	Not now.  We got a crisis going on
	here.

			JIMMY
	That's why we need to talk.

That catches Perry's attention.  He stops.

			PERRY
	Okay, son.  Talk fast.

			JIMMY
	Clark's right.  Somebody ought to
	be looking for Superman.

			PERRY
	You heard 'em, son.  They got their
	hands full with that rocket.

			JIMMY
	You know how many times your VCR's
	been in the shop?  Things break.
	Things don't work.  And they gotta
	hit this moving target and get it 
	right the first time.  I don't want 
	to bet my life on a rocket, Chief.
	I'm twenty-one years old.  You've 
	had a great career.  I haven't even 
	written my first story.  I'm not 
	ready to give up.

			PERRY
		(sighs)
	What have you got in mind?

Jimmy unfolds a map.

			JIMMY
	Lois asked me to make some calls.
	Anyway, right after Superman broke 
	the asteroid up the other day, 
	well, a bunch of people near Hobs 
	Bay reported some kind of shooting 
	star.  But they thought it crashed 
	in Suicide Slum.

			PERRY
	Maybe it was a piece of the
	asteroid.

			JIMMY
	How?  I mean, how would it get here 
	ahead of the rest of it?  But 
	Superman could.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					29.


CONTINUED: 2

			PERRY
	That's a real long shot.

			JIMMY
	You got a better idea?

Perry shakes his head.  He doesn't.  In fact, he thinks 
this is not the worst idea he's heard.  A beat, then:

			PERRY
	Let me get my coat.

				CUT TO:



The door opens.  No one enters.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					30.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS (O.S.)
	Go ahead.  It's your place.

Clark enters, followed by Lois.  Clark looks around, 
seeing the place through new eyes.

			LOIS
	Does this look familiar?

			CLARK
	Maybe...  I don't know...   Not yet.

Clark begins to wander around the apartment, picking up 
photos, looking at book titles.  He picks up an old signed
football, smells its leather, hoping for a clue.

			LOIS
	You played in college.

Clark picks up a photo of Jonathan and Martha.

			CLARK
	My parents?

			LOIS
	Nice people.  The office tried to 
	get in touch with them but they 
	didn't answer.  Phones are 
	overloaded all over the country.

			CLARK
	I'll keep trying.

			LOIS
	Well, I guess I'll be going.

			CLARK
	Do you have to?

			LOIS
	There's too much at stake.  And I 
	can't just write Superman off.  We 
	need him.

			CLARK
	You're right.  We should keep at
	it.

			LOIS
	No, Clark, I should keep at it.
	We need you, too, you've been 
	through a lot.  Get a good night's 
	sleep.
		(sympathetic)
	I know you must be scared.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					31.


CONTINUED: 2

			CLARK
	Sort of.  To have time running out 
	when you don't know what you've 
	missed...

			LOIS
	You've been around the world.  You 
	have a family who loves you.  You 
	haven't missed anything important.

			CLARK
	And we are friends, right?

			LOIS
	Sure we're friends.

			CLARK
	Are we... more than friends?

			LOIS
	More than ... ? I told you.  We're 
	partners.  We work closely 
	together.

			CLARK
	How close?

			LOIS
	Close.  Not close, close, but
	close.

An awkward beat of closeness.

			CLARK
	I bet you're a great reporter.

			LOIS
	See?  Your memory's already
	starting to come back...



Perry drives, Jimmy has a flashlight on a map with various
locations marked.  Two people, two conversations.

			PERRY
	You know, I covered Beirut before 
	the Marines showed up in '82, and 
	it was never as bad as this.

			JIMMY
	I got four people.  All claim they
	saw the same thing.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					32.


CONTINUED:

			PERRY
	Bob Kerns and I got caught in a 
	free-fire zone.  Somebody shot our 
	tires out.

			JIMMY
	Chief, slow down...

			PERRY
	We dodged out of there and started
	walking, but that just made us a 
	target.  Well, Kerns was a real 
	charming guy and absolutely 
	fearless, so he just marched into 
	this little restaurant, ordered 
	drinks for the house and that's 
	where we ended up spending the 
	night.

			JIMMY
	Pull over!  If you draw a line 
	between all the sightings, they 
	intersect right here!

Perry pulls the car to a halt.  Jimmy throws the door 
open, goes out to inspect.

			PERRY
	Jimmy!  It's not safe out here.

			JIMMY
	Chief, you've taken strolls in war
	zones!  Give me a chance.

Jimmy points to a large hole in a metal fence.  A graffiti 
tagger has written "The End is Near." Underneath someone 
has written "No Kidding."

			JIMMY (Cont'd)
	Look!  Who do you think could make
	a hole like that?

Perry looks.  Gets out of the car, slams the door shut.



Lois moves through the newsroom, followed by Clark.  As 
she passes Applegate:

			LOIS
	Turn up anything in the hospitals?
		(off his head shake)
	Check the morgue.

Lois approaches the coffee station.  She begins to make 
herself a full "leaded" version.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Let's be logical about this.  Perry 
	and Jimmy found part of Superman's 
	uniform.  That means he made it 
	back to Earth.  But there's no 
	body, which means he's not dead.  
	But he hasn't contacted anyone 
	which means...

Lois sees that Clark is staring at her.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Why are you looking at me like 
	that?

			CLARK
	I was just wondering how we met.

			LOIS
	You were in here trying to peddle 
	some article from the Borneo 
	Gazette to get Perry to hire you.

			CLARK
	Did we like each other right away?
	You and me, I mean.

			LOIS
	We didn't not like each other.

			CLARK
	Hey, I'm remembering something.
	You don't drink real coffee with 
	real milk with real sugar.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					36.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	I do today.

A staffer hands Lois a phone message.  She reads it.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Listen, Clark, Lex Luthor wants to
	see me.
		(off his blank reaction)
	He's the most connected man in
	Metropolis.  Could be something.
	See you later?

Lois moves off to her desk to get her things.  Cat 
approaches Clark.  She's carrying a duffel bag which she 
drops ceremoniously in front of him.

			CAT
	Batteries, flashlights, food
	water.  Survival supplies.  Do you 
	want to ride this out at my place 
	or yours?

			CLARK
	Can I think about it?

			CAT
	Let's go, Clark.  Forget about
	work.  Think about us.
		(lustfully)
	Live for today.

			CLARK
	I don't think so.

Clark starts away.  Cat stops him.  This time when she 
speaks, she sounds honestly vulnerable.

			CAT
	I don't want to be alone... if this
	is... well, whatever this is.

			CLARK
	But we don't really have a
	relationship, do we?

			CAT
	We're friends.  That's a
	relationship.

			CLARK
		(painfully honest)
	I need to find my own memories.  I 
	can't fake then with someone else.
	I'm sorry.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					37.


CONTINUED:  2

Clark takes off, stopped by Jimmy.

			JIMMY
	C.K., grab your stuff.  Perry says 
	since my first long-shot paid off, 
	I can try another one.  You're 
	comin' with me.

				CUT TO:



Clark and Jimmy sit inside a room, resplendent with the
paraphernalia that goes with this particular territory.  
The psychic across from then is MYSTIQUE, a real 60's/90's 
type.  Jimmy produces the tattered piece-of the insignia.

			JIMMY
	We think this was Superman's.
	We've had it analyzed.  It's 
	emitting very weak cosmic rays.
	That means it's been in space.

He hands the insignia to Mystique.  She holds it, rubs it
carefully between her fingers, trying to absorb its 
essence.

			MYSTIQUE
	I have been feeling Superman's
	presence strongly.

			JIMMY
	So he's alive?

			MYSTIQUE
	I don't know.  I feel his 
	confusion.  Often, the recently 
	dead are quite rattled by the
	experience.

			CLARK
	We need to find Superman.  Do you 
	have any idea where we might start 
	looking?

Mystique settles back in her chair.  Her eyes close.  She 
appears to be going into a deep trance.  Clark and Jimmy 
trade looks.  This is really weird.  Suddenly, she leaps 
from her seat and begins pacing.

			MYSTIQUE
	He's here!

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					38.


CONTINUED:

			JIMMY
	We know he's here.  That's why
	we're here.

			MYSTIQUE
	His life force is incredibly
	powerful.

			CLARK
		(whispers; to Jimmy)
	I think she's confused.

			MYSTIQUE
	No! I'm feeling this very 
	strongly.  My senses tell me that 
	he is definitely alive.  I feel the 
	vibration of life in his images.
	Have one of you just talked to him?

			JIMMY
	I think you might be tuned into the
	wrong channel.

			MYSTIQUE
	I know what I'm feeling.  This is
	unmistakable.

Clark and Jimmy trade looks, as we...

				CUT TO:


Luthor leads Lois down a long, sterile hallway.  Its white 
walls and fluorescent lighting make it seem cold and 
scary.  On the walls are schematic drawings of a complete
underground city.

			LUTHOR
	You are standing precisely five 
	hundred meters below Metropolis 
	street level.  Surrounded by 
	sixteen inch reinforced concrete 
	walls.  originally designed to 
	survive a nuclear attack.

			LOIS
	A bunker.

			LUTHOR
	I prefer to think of it as an...
	'Ark.'  We have room for two 
	hundred people.  Supplies to last 
	three years.
			(MORE)

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					39.


CONTINUED:

			LUTHOR (CONT'D)
	Tools and implements for farming
	and manufacture when we re-emerge.

			LOIS
	So, even if the world dies, you
	live?

			LUTHOR
	The survival of a species does not
	depend on the survival of all its 
	members.  Indeed, were the 
	dinosaurs possessed of a somewhat 
	larger brain, they, too, might have 
	escaped their fate.  Fortunately 
	for us, they did not, and now, the 
	next chance is ours.

			LOIS
	Do you want me to... write about
	this?

			LUTHOR
	No, no.  I seek no publicity.  In 
	fact, considering the 
	circumstances, advertising the 
	existence of this would seem to be 
	rather cruel.

			LOIS
	Then why am I here?

They pause outside a door.  A white door set into a white 
wall.  Luthor pushes it open.  Lois steps inside and is 
shocked to realize, she is in:



Correct.  Lois's apartment.  Down to the furniture.  
Exactly as we have come to know it.  Lois enters, stops,
completely blown away.

			LOIS
	This is my apartment.

			LUTHOR
	Well, at least a reasonable 
	facsimile thereof.  I hope you like 
	it.

			LOIS
	What's not to like?  I decorated
	it.
		(beat)
	But I am a little confused.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					40.


CONTINUED:

			LUTHOR
	I'm offering you a chance, Lois, to 
	be a passenger on this ark.  To be 
	my special guest on Mankind's next 
	great adventure.

Luthor moves to the window, throws it open.  Outside, it's a
glorious sunny day.

			LUTHOR (Cont'd)
	It's an illusion, of course, but, 
	nonetheless, better than a wall.
	To help you remember the way things 
	were, how they might be again.

			LOIS
	Why me, Lex?

			LUTHOR
	Because I care.  And, I must admit, 
	because three years will be a long 
	time without... 'companionship.'

Lois looks at Luthor.  It seems clear what is being 
offered.  Life, with strings attached.

			LOIS
	Lex, I don't know...

			LUTHOR
	Think about it.  I'll await your
	decision.

Luthor exits, leaving Lois alone in the room.  She walks 
around, checking it for authenticity.  Then, she suddenly 
moves to the door and exits into:



Luthor walks away.  Lois calls after him.

			LOIS
	Lex.

			LUTHOR
		(turning around)
	May I send someone to pack your
	personal belongings?

			LOIS
	No. I've got a partner who needs
	me.  I've got friends at the paper 
	that are like family to me.  And 
	I'm not giving up on Superman 
	either.  I can't stay here.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					41.


CONTINUED:

			LUTHOR
	Lois, mob rule is not a pretty
	sight.  You don't have to see it.

			LOIS
	I do.  If what that asteroid does 
	is destroy the world as we know it, 
	I have to be there to see what 
	takes its place.  It may be the 
	best comeback in history.

			LUTHOR
	Or the fastest knock-out.

			LOIS
	Either way, I have to see for
	myself.



Perry sits alone at his desk.  He's eating a huge triple
cheeseburger, complete with fries and a malt. He's got a 
baseball card collection spread out on his desk when Jimmy 
enters.  The EPRAD countdown, however, tells us the
situation: 18 hours, 34 minutes, 47 seconds and
counting...

			JIMMY
	Struck out, Chief.  Sorry.

			PERRY
	Me, too.  Fries?

			JIMMY
	Do they let people with high blood
	pressure eat that stuff?

Perry glares at Jimmy.

			JIMMY (Cont'd)
	Yeah.  Right.  Who cares?
		(scared)
	I mean, it's going to take a
	miracle to get us out of this one.

Perry picks up a baseball card from the desk, holds it up 
before Jimmy.

			PERRY
	Ted Williams.  Batted a four-oh-six 
	season in 1941.  Miracles do 
	happen.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					42.


CONTINUED:

			JIMMY
	So, uh, you want me to write up my
	notes?

			PERRY
	Heck, son, you might as well just
	write up the story.

			JIMMY
	The story?  The 'Superman is
	alive and we have proof' story?

			PERRY
	Why not?  It's yours.

			JIMMY
	Oh, wow, Perry.  I don't know if
	I'm ready.

			PERRY
	I don't know if you are either.
	Seems like a good time to find out.

			JIMMY
	I won't let you down.

			PERRY
	Just do your best.

Jimmy starts out of the office.

			PERRY (Cont'd)
	Hey, hey, hey.

Jimmy stops at the door.  Perry slides the door to his 
credenza open.  Produces an old relic of a typewriter.
Sets it on the desk.

			PERRY (Cont'd)
	You might want to use this.

			JIMMY
	What is it?  I mean I know it's a
	typewriter...

			PERRY
	Not just any typewriter.  Clete 
	Johnson gave it to me after 
	carrying it all over the world 
	writing for this paper.  I was a
	copy boy.  Wrote my first story on 
	it.

			JIMMY
	I can't.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					43.


CONTINUED:  2

			PERRY
	Sure you can.  It's good luck.  And 
	we could use a spell of it right 
	about now.

Jimmy looks at the typewriter.  He's choked up, barely 
able to speak.  Then he reaches over and picks it up.

			JIMMY
	For good luck.

Jimmy exits.  Perry watches him go.

				CUT TO:



Clark slowly hangs up.  Jonathan and Martha watch him.

			MARTHA
	Who was that?

			CLARK
	Lois Lane.  I don't know if she's
	more upset about the asteroid 
	hitting Earth or the fact that 
	Superman's missing.

			JONATHAN
	Superman's not missing.

			CLARK
	Sure he is.  Nobody can find him.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					44.


CONTINUED:

			MARTHA
	Jonathan, I don't think he knows.

			CLARK
	Know what?!

Martha and Jonathan trade looks.  How do they tell him?



Martha throws open Clark's closet.  She begins tapping on 
the back wall, then pushes in a certain area.  The wall 
rotates, revealing:


BEHIND THE CLOSET

Where three separate Superman costumes hang neatly on 
hangers.


BACK TO SCENE

Martha gestures to them.

			MARTHA
	I sewed them for you.

			CLARK
	Why would I want Superman costumes?

			JONATHAN
	Because you're Superman.

			CLARK
	That's crazy!  I may not remember 
	much but everything I've read about 
	this guy so far, he's unreal.  They 
	say he's not even from this planet.

			MARTHA
	Why do you think those costumes are
	there?

			CLARK
	I don't know, maybe you're not even 
	my parents, maybe this is all some 
	game I don't know the rules to, but 
	they don't prove I'm Superman.

Jonathan picks up a baseball bat from the side of Clark's 
room.  Hefts it.

			MARTHA
	What are you doing?

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					45.


CONTINUED:

			JONATHAN
	He needs proof.
		(to Clark).
	This is going to hurt me more than
	it hurts you, believe me.

Jonathan lets go with a mighty swing.  THE BAT SHATTERS
on Clark's hardbody.  Jonathan shakes his hands in pain.
Clark is astonished.  He sinks to the bed.

			MARTHA
	It's true, Clark.



Clark, Jonathan and Martha watch the TV news.  The EPRAD 
clock reads 15:23:37 and counting down...

			MADISON (T.V.)
	According to EPRAD Mission Control,
	the Asgard rocket with the nuclear 
	payload should detonate against the 
	'Nightfall' asteroid any second 
	now.  Let's go to EPRAD.

On TV, WE SEE the computer graphics of the missile and the
asteroid.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Tracking telemetry zero, niner,
	alpha.
		(beat)
	The Asgard rocket has missed its 
	target.  Repeat, the Asgard rocket 
	has missed its target.

Jonathan zaps the TV set off.  The three of them sit in 
silence, absorbing the impact of this failure.  Finally:

			JONATHAN
	The world needs you now.  More than
	it ever has, I expect.

			MARTHA
		(worried)
	Jonathan, he's already tried
	once...

			JONATHAN
	What choice is there but to try
	again?

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					46.


CONTINUED:

			CLARK
	Flying into space to stop an 
	asteroid doesn't exactly come 
	natural.  Does it?

			JONATHAN
	You're the only one who can do it,
	son.

			CLARK
	Can I? Even if what you're telling 
	me about being Superman is true, I 
	still don't remember how to be 
	him.

Jonathan and Martha comfort their son who is now feeling 
the weight of the world almost literally descending on his
shoulders, as we:

				FADE OUT
		    END OF ACT THREE


ALL SHOOK UP					47.


			ACT FOUR

FADE IN:



Jimmy sits at his desk hunt-and-pecking over Perry's old
typewriter.  Perry approaches, puts a hand on.  Jimmy's 
shoulder.

			PERRY
	We're gonna need that copy, Jimmy.

Jimmy sighs, pulls the paper out of the typewriter.

			JIMMY
	I don't know.  You guys make it
	look so easy.

Jimmy hands him the copy and Perry takes a look at it.

			JIMMY (Cont'd)
	Pretty lame, huh?

			PERRY
	Could use some polish.  Listen,
	Jimmy. . .

			JIMMY
	I know.  You gotta give it to a
	real reporter.

			PERRY
	I was just thinking maybe I should
	partner you with someone on this.

			JIMMY
	Partner?  Who's gonna want to
	partner with me?

Perry sees Lois entering off the elevator.  He rolls up 
his sleeves.

			PERRY
	Why don't we all work in my office?

				CUT TO:



Cat is seated in the booth, nervously playing with her 
rosary beads.  She speaks to a small, screened opening.

			CAT
	Bless me father for I have
	sinned... and sinned... and sinned.

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					48.


CONTINUED:

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	How long has it been since your
	last confession?

			CAT
		(thinking hard)
	Twenty, uh, twenty-two years.  But
	I've meant to get in more.  I've 
	just had a busy schedule.

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	I'm sure you realize the time 
	constraints we're operating under.
	Perhaps you should limit this 
	confession to the most recent
	transgressions.

			CAT
	I told a man who has no memory that
	he desires me.

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	Does he?

			CAT
	Well, he ought to.  Although he has
	been playing awfully hard to get.

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	So you are confessing to the sin of
	lust by taking advantage of a
	vulnerable man?

			CAT
	It's kind of a pattern I see in my
	behavior.  I just don't want to
	meet the maker fresh off this one.

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	Why do you feel you've lived your
	life this way?

			CAT
	I guess I've always found meaning
	in meaningless relationships.
		(beat)
	I called everyone I know.  They all
	have someone to be with.  It's
	taken to the end of the Earth to
	get to this point, but I'm totally 
	alone.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					49.


CONTINUED: 2

			PRIEST (V.O.)
	But what you want now is 
	reassurance that you're never 
	alone, that you are loved for your 
	soul.  Is that right?

			CAT
	Exactly.  Aren't there some things 
	you passionately want to experience 
	just once before you die?

The window between them slams shut.

			CAT (Cont'd)
	Father?  Father?

				CUT TO:



Lois sits at her desk, looking at the morning edition.
Jimmy it seen in the background, showing his by-line to
Cat.  Perry approaches Lois.

			PERRY
	Jimmy's a good kid, Lois.  Thanks
	for sharin' your by-line.

			LOIS
	He earned it.  As long as we know 
	Superman got back to Earth, there's 
	still hope.
		(beat)
	It just doesn't feel right without
	Clark's name next to mine.

			PERRY
	You don't have to be here now.
	It's your choice.  Go be with him.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					50.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	Look, Perry, I'm a reporter.  If 
	this is the last great story to 
	cover on the last edition of the 
	Daily Planet, then this is where I 
	belong.

			PERRY
	What about your family?

			LOIS
	We already managed to get everybody 
	together on an open phone line.  
	Mom and Dad even acted like they 
	cared about each other.  It was nice.  
	You?

			PERRY
	Alice was visiting the boys when it 
	all happened.  She can't get a 
	flight out of Des Moine.

			LOIS
	I'm sorry.

			PERRY
	She knows how I feel about her and 
	what she's meant to me.  That's the 
	important thing.

Lois considers this, her mind racing.

			LOIS
	Clark is probably still at home,
	isn't he?

			PERRY
		(nods)
	Maybe he's the lucky one.  If he 
	doesn't remember the way it was, 
	maybe he won't miss it.

			LOIS
	You know, I'm taking you up on your
	offer.  I'll be back before...
		(beat)
	I'll see you, Perry.

			PERRY
	You do that, Lois.'

Lois takes off, as we:

				CUT TO:


ALL SHOOK UP					51.



The Planet gang watches the celebration below.  Jimmy 
starts pouring champagne from an open bottle, fizzing its
contents.

			JIMMY
	Perry, these last two days were the 
	best days of my life.  Even if it 
	was almost the end of the world.

			PERRY
	You did a good job Jimmy.  You 
	hustled, you didn't give up, you 
	got the story.

			JIMMY
	Just wish I could write better.

			PERRY
	Nothing wrong with being a 
	photo-journalist with a nose for 
	news.  You keep at it, son.  Never 
	know what'll happen.

Suddenly, the crowd below erupts in a huge ROAR.  Jimmy 
grabs his camera, starts snapping away.



Where LITERALLY A SECOND LATER, CLARK APPEARS, walks up 
to join the gang, staring out the window.

			CLARK
	Did I miss something?

			LOIS
	Only Superman saving the world.

			PERRY
	A real day to remember.
		(beat)
	If you'll pardon the expression.

Perry and Jimmy offer handshakes, AD-LIB congratulations.  
Lois smiles, gives Clark a hug.

			LOIS
	I knew a bump on the head couldn't
	slow you down long.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					57.


CONTINUED:

Cat gives Clark a kiss.

			CAT
	For old time's sake.

			CLARK
	There were no old times.

			CAT
	Can't blame a girl for trying.

Cat moves off.  Lois grabs Clark.

			LOIS
	So, what was the first thing you
	remembered?

			CLARK
	Superman.  Everything you told me
	made it feel like I knew him.

			LOIS
		(looks out the window)
	Superman.  What he must have gone 
	through, huh?

			CLARK
	Hey, Lois, this asteroid was no
	picnic for me, either.

			LOIS
	Clark, please.  Superman put it all 
	on the line, not just once, but 
	twice.  You, you fell into some 
	garbage cans in the dark.  No 
	offense, but I don't think you can 
	put yourself in the same league 
	with him.

			CLARK
	Whatever you say, Lois.  Whatever
	you say.

				FADE OUT.
			THE END


??



 

 


