
A suburban house. Thoroughly ordinary. Empty. Silent.


KIRSTEN ROSS is barefoot in jogging trousers and a  T-shirt. 
She s leaning over a COT- in which her BABY is just settling. 
  Kirsten s mingled love, wonder and relief. 

The DOORBELL RINGS. Kirsten rolls her eyes. What now?

Checks the baby. Nearly asleep. Kirsten creeps to the door.


The doorbell rings again. Long and urgent.

  A little worried, Kirsten hurries to the door. Opens it. 

On A VERY HANDSOME MAN. He s smart, trim, excellently groomed. 
His name, we ll learn, is LUCIEN BURGESS.

                                    BURGESS
                  MsRoss? Kirsten Ross?

                                    KIRSTEN
                Yes - 

                                    BURGESS
                I m Detective Inspector Phillip 
                  Hamilton, from -

                                    KIRSTEN
                Oh God - oh my God. Is Carl okay?

The BABY GIVES OUT A CRY. Burgess and Kirsten glances across 
the hallway.

                                      KIRSTEN(cont d)
                Is Carl okay?

                                    BURGESS
                Um, do you mind if - ?

                                    KIRSTEN
                No, no, of course. Sorry. Please - 

Burgess crosses the threshold. Shuts the door behind him.

                                    BURGESS
                  Before I go on, I should ask if anyone 
                  else might be home? Anyone who could 
                  help?

                                    KIRSTEN
                No. No.I m waiting for - oh, God, is 
                he all right?          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 2.


Burgess lays a COMFORTING HANDon her shoulder. Something NOT 
QUITE RIGHT in his demeanour.

He takes a step forward - and LICKS KIRSTEN S FACE!

Her shock is absolute. It freezes her to the spot. Burgess 
whips out a CUT-THROAT RAZOR - GRABS HER - TURNS her - puts the 
razor to her THROAT. Then - slowly - to HER EYE. His breathing 
is ragged, aroused. 

  Kirsten, utterly terrified, loses control of her bladder.

                                    BURGESS
                  Your husband will be home soon. Either 
                he opens the door and finds his wife 
                and baby spread all over the carpet - 
                or he comes home to find the baby 
                  asleep in her cot and his wife gone. 
                So which will it be? 


Burgess looks at the BABY, gurgling happily in her cot. 


And Luther lurches in horror. 

It takes him a moment to steady himself - and for the WILD 
LOOPS AND SPATTERS OF BLOOD on the walls to RESOLVE INTO -

                                    RIPLEY
                Is that blood?

Luther cast an uneasy glance towards the living room.

                                    LUTHER
                The victim?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Kirsten Ross. Thirty-two. Missing, 
                  presumed abducted.

                                    LUTHER
                She got a child? A young child?

                                    RIPLEY
                      (how does he know that?)
                  AbbieRoss. Three months old.

Long beat. Luther and Ripley in the weird yellowish light, the 
normal hallway, the shocking weirdness of the blood.

                                    LUTHER
                  Baby okay?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Untouched. Father comes home, sees all 
                  this, imagines the worst. You re 
                  thinking he did this? The father? 

                                    LUTHER
                No. No, I don t think that.

  Ripley's next question fades. Luther is focused on the writing.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 4.


                                    RIPLEY
                  I tried to transcribe it.

                                    LUTHER
                No need.
                          (withintensifying rage and 
                          disgust)
                 Do not fear the Abyss, for I am the 
                  abyss - and thou shalt weep with the 
                  fervourand bliss of my love. 

                                    RIPLEY
                    Blimey.Satanism?Occult murder?

                                    LUTHER
                You superstitious about this stuff?

                                    RIPLEY
                Not as a rule. Not so much. But this - 
                  this is really weird. 

Teller enters, stepping through the plastic curtain. 

                                    LUTHER
                      (to Teller)
                The writing?

                                    TELLER
                  Same hand. Same writer.

                                    RIPLEY
                  What hand? What writer?

Out on the wall - the terrible writing - the carnage.


Two PINBOARDS.

Pinned to one are the KIRSTEN ROSS CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPHS - 
  Kirsten s house, inside and out, the blood in the hallway, a 
SMILING PORTRAIT of Kirsten.

Ripley and Luther examine these - as Teller arranges a BULGING 
  MANILLAfolder. It s stamped: COLD CASE: ALLEN/G.

File ready, she steps forward and begins.

As she talks, she removes OLD CRIME SCENE PHOTOS AND OLD 
  DOCUMENTS FROM THE COLD CASE FOLDER. Pins them to the SECOND 
  PINBOARD, which is blank.

                                    TELLER
                So we re all up to speed. Ten years 
                  ago- 
                        (pins up a PHOTO OF GRACE 
                        ALLEN pre-abduction.)          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 5.


                  - Grace Allen was abducted from her 
                  home. Her baby was asleep upstairs. 
                  Unhurt. No sign of a struggle. Husband 
                  comes home, finds his hallway looking 
                  like this -

Pins up a PHOTO OF GRACE ALLEN'S HALLWAY - writing in blood.

                                    LUTHER
                  Same writing. Same words.

Luther stares at that smiling, long lost woman. 

                                    TELLER
                  Three months later, the investigation 
                  received an anonymous tip, some bloke -

She pins up a BLANK SILHOUETTEof an UNKNOWN MAN.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  - who claims to be an accomplice, or 
                  acolyte, of this man - 
                        (pins up mugshot)
                  Lucien Burgess. Burgess is a rich kid - 
                  Eton, Cambridge, all that. But he s 
                  born with bad blood. He s into 
                  burglary, drugs, bad sex. The occult. 
                Age thirty, he s got his own little 
                  black magic cult derived from the 
                  writings of AleisterCrowley.

                                    LUTHER
                  Called himself  the Great Beast. 

Ripley steps to the COLD CASE CRIME SCENE PHOTOS.

                                    RIPLEY
                The blood on the walls?

                                    TELLER
                  Human and fresh. Tapped from a living 
                  source -

                                    RIPLEY
                  That much of it?

                                    LUTHER
                  Human body s got six litres.Tap a 
                  little bit at a time, over a few weeks 
                  - you ve got a body s worth of blood 
                to splash around. But no corpse.

                                    RIPLEY
                And the  handwriting ?           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 6.


                                    LUTHER
                  Burgess favours the right hand. 
                  Whoever wrote on the wall favoured the 
                  left.

                                    TELLER
                        (taps the silhouette)
                  They assumed this was the writer. 
                  Called him the  Left Handed man.  
                  Never identified, never heard from 
                  again. 

                                    RIPLEY
                And Burgess?

                                    TELLER
                  They were confident they had their 
                  man, but they had nothing on him. So 
                an undercover operation was 
                  authorised. It went wrong.  
                        (Pins up a photo of RICHARD 
                        HENLEY)
                  Nobody knows the details. What s a 
                  matter of record: while he was 
                  supposed to be undercover D.S.Richard 
                  Henley attempted to make an arrest. In 
                the process, he did this -

Pins up a FRONT PAGE CLIPPING from the NATIONAL GAZETTE. MY 
ARREST HELL. A portrait of Burgess, barely recognisablebehind 
  BRUISING, SWELLING, ABRASIONS.

He pins up more NEWSPAPER HEADLINES: POLICE ADMIT SHOCKING 
  BLUNDERS IN GRACE INVESTIGATION - LUCIEN BURGESS CELEBRATES AS 
COPS SAY  SORRY  - POLICE WILL  LEARN LESSONS  FROM BURGESS 
CASE.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  All-but killed him. Henley does three 
                and a half years for GBH.And Burgess 
                  gets rich on government compensation.

She pins up an 8 x 10 posed PUBLICITY SHOT of Burgess.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  A year after all this, Grace Allen's 
                  body turns up next to a railway 
                  siding. She d been frozen post mortem.
                  There were rumoursshe d been kept 
                  alive as long as two years.

                                    RIPLEY
                Two years?!

                                    TELLER
                  When they found her, she d been 
                  completely exsanguinated. Burgess 
                  drained her blood.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 7.


Teller finishes pinning up the COLD CASE PHOTOS. And we see -
they re A DUPLICATE of TONIGHT S CRIME SCENE.

Luther steps up to the IMAGES OF TONIGHT S CRIME - THE KIRSTEN 
ROSS SCENE. 

The photograph of THE BLOODY WRITING IN THE HALLWAY. He looks 
at Teller. She nods. Passes him the FORENSICS REPORT in her 
hand.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Forensics confirm. The writing on the 
                  wall tonight was in Grace Allen's 
                  blood. Still fresh, ten years on.

They take in the horror of this. Staring at the TERRIBLE IMAGES
before them. 

                                    RIPLEY
                We must have enough to pick him up? 

                                    TELLER
                  Well, yeah. Ordinarily. But the last 
                  time the police went after him, we 
                  caused a full-blown media and 
                  political shitstorm.

                                    RIPLEY
                But Kirsten Ross is probably still 
                  alive - and out there right now. 

                                    TELLER
                  Finding her is our highest priority - 
                but not our sole priority. We don t so 
                  much as cast a glance in Burgess s 
                  direction until we ve got something 
                  bulletproof. 

                                    RIPLEY
                But he doesn t leave evidence.

                                    LUTHER
                So we find something - a chink in his 
                  armour.I don t care how small. We 
                  find it, lever it.

Out on the three of them - looking at the COLD CASE PHOTOS - 
Grace s hall, Grace pre-abduction.

And poor KIRSTEN. Grinning at them from out of the recent, 
happy past.


A DARK, VERY NARROW, VERY CONFINED SPACE. Wood panelled floors, 
walls, ceiling. And an OLD CHEST FREEZER. Rusty at the hinges 
with three holes on the lid.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 8.


Lucien Burgess is wearing LATEX GLOVES. WHITE PLASTIC BAGS are 
taped round his feet. PLASTIC SHEETING has been spread over the 
floor and walls, TAPED DOWN. 

Burgess unfolds a PORTABLE CAMPING STOOL and sits. Stares with 
INTENSE GRATIFICATION at the freezer. An air of INTENSE 
  MALIGNANCY.

From INSIDE THE FREEZER comes a KNOCKING. It starts out TIMID 
but GROWS IN INTENSITY - until it s accompanied a MUFFLED, 
PANICKY SCREAMING. Which makes Burgess smile.

And lick his lips.

SCENE 11 OMITTED1111


Zoe enters. She s flustered after work, glad to be home. 
Looking forward to a glass of wine before dinner.

She s astonished to see - Mark bending over the sink, splashing 
COLD WATERonto his face. It takes her a moment - to register 
the DISHEVELLED STATE OF HIM. He s taken a PRETTY GOOD BEATING.

                                  ZOE
                My God - What happened?

                                    MARK
                  They knew who I was.

                                  ZOE
                  Who?

                                    MARK
                The people who did this.

                                  ZOE
                  What do you mean? 

                                    MARK
                  I mean, someone put them up to it.

                                  ZOE
                  Who?

He faces her, bleeding and angry.

                                    MARK
                  They were girls. He sent girls to do 
                it. He s a genius, really.

Out on her reaction - absolutely stunned - 

                                  ZOE
                He wouldn t -           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 9.


                                    MARK
                You think?


Luther is studying the CASE FILE - THE BLOODY WRITING IN THE 
  HALLWAY. Ripley comes off his phone.

                                    RIPLEY
                  A hundred uniforms knocking on doors. 
                  Nobody saw or heard a thing.  

                                    LUTHER
                  Burgess is so careful, so disciplined. 
                  Does a man like that really work with 
                an accomplice? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  According to the literature, if the 
                  Left Handed Man actually existed, he d 
                be like an acolyte, a follower; a 
                  submissive personality.

                                    LUTHER
                An apostle who betrays his master to 
                the police - but who s still working 
                  with him, ten years later? Does that 
                  sound right to you? It doesn t sound 
                  right to me.

                                    RIPLEY
                So what rewe saying?

                                    LUTHER
                  Burgess wants fame. Infamy. He wants 
                to humiliate the police, make the 
                  media dance to his tune. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  They had his handwriting analysed.
                  Tried to make him write with his left 
                  hand. He couldn t do it.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s still not right, though. It s not 
                  right. Grace Allen s ten year old 
                  blood was found tonight in Kirsten 
                  Ross s house. The blood on the walls 
                of Grace Allen s house was human too.

                                    RIPLEY
                The source was never identified.

                                    LUTHER
                  Maybe that s because no-one looked in 
                the right place.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 10.


                                    LUTHER (cont d)
                Go through Cold Cases. Dig around any 
                  unsolvedswith similar indications.

His thought process is interrupted by an INCOMING EMAIL.The 
header reads: YOUR WISH IS MY COMMAND. Half distracted, Luther 
clicks on it. 

Seeing that Luther is distracted, Ripley ANSWERS THE RINGING 
DESK PHONE. 

                                    RIPLEY
                        (answers)
                DCI Luther s phone, DSRipley - 

Ripley listens.

As Luther checks the email- and reels

ANGLE ON EMAIL: It s  HAPPY SLAPPING  FOOTAGE. It shows a GANG 
OF YOUNG GIRLS HASSLING then SAVAGELY BEATING MARK NORTH.

                                    Ripley (cont d)
                  Hello? Boss? 

                                    LUTHER
                          (minimisingemail)
                  Sorry?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Lost you for a moment there. Sorry.

                                    LUTHER
                My fault. I do that. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  The, um, the undercover guy s here. Do 
                you want me to go and fetch him?

Luther nods, troubled, glancing at his computer. Ripley exits.

SCENE 14 OMITTED1414






Luther exits, moves through the bullpen. Towards RIPLEY, who s 
  entering the unit with a man we recognise from his snapshot as 
RICHARD HENLEY.

But Luther is brought up short as -

JUST BEHIND THEM -

TELLER escorts MARK NORTH ONTO THE UNIT.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 11.


Luther mouths the word: bollocks.Stands there, following Mark 
North with his eyes.

Just before she and Mark enter her office, Teller gives Luther 
a look. He makes an innocent face. Then Teller shuts her office 
door - 

- and Luther turns to Ripley and HENLEY.

                                    RIPLEY
                  D.C.IJohn Luther, Richard Henley.

                                    LUTHER
                        (shakes his hand)
                  I appreciate you coming in.

                                    HENLEY
                  Well, they didn t give me much choice.

                                    RIPLEY
                        (explains)
                  There s a bit of an arrest warrant 
                  out. Unpaid speeding tickets.

As Ripley leads Henley to the interview room, Luther casts a 
  TROUBLED GLANCE at Teller s office, then dials his phone.

                                    LUTHER
                  Benny? Sorry about the hour - but 
                  mate, I really need a favour.


Burgess has been on the camping stool for hours. Not moving. 
Just savouringit all. 

Now he stirs. Opens the padlock. Lifts the lid. 

INSIDE THE FREEZER is KIRSTEN ROSS. 

Burgess gazes down upon her. 

                                    BURGESS
                Oh, you are...radiant.

She struggles in her bonds. Terrified eyes.

He dribbles a LINE OF SPITTLEinto the freezer - 

                                      BURGESS(cont d)
                Are you ready?


Luther and Richard Henley. He s nervous, unshaven, This man has 
been to some DARK PLACES. Not all of him came back.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 12.


                                    LUTHER
                  Richard, the truth of it is: we re 
                  nowhere. We ve got SOCOat the house, 
                  bodies on the street -

                                    HENLEY
                He won t have left you anything.

                                    LUTHER
                Not a thing. And now the clock s 
                  ticking on Kirsten Ross.

Shows him the photo. 

                                    HENLEY
                  It s all in the case file.

                                    LUTHER
                But it s not, is it? Not the stuff we 
                  need to know. You re the only one who 
                can help us here. 

                                    HENLEY
                I m not a copper any more.

                                    LUTHER
                Yes you are. 

Shows Henley the BLOOD IN KIRSTEN S HALLWAY. Henley winces, 
looks away. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Whatever you did back then, whatever 
                you might have agreed to, you have my 
                  word that whatever s said in this room 
                  stays in this room. 

  Henley s hands writhe in his lap.

                                    HENLEY
                  There was - a lot of sex stuff. Far 
                  out, extreme, whatever. 

                                    LUTHER
                By extreme, you mean - you did stuff 
                you weren t comfortable with?

                                    HENLEY
                You could put it like that, yeah. I 
                  think about it, even now, I want to 
                  scrub myself down with bleach.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t need all the details. But we 
                  might need to know -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 13.


                                    HENLEY
                Sex Magick.Focus the energy of orgasm 
                to further your  greater purpose . 

                                    LUTHER
                So did he use blood? In your presence?

                                    HENLEY
                He said all bodily fluids are 
                  powerful. Semen, vaginal secretions, 
                  blood. Menstrual blood was best.

                                    LUTHER
                  What did he do with it?

                                    HENLEY
                All this stuff had to be - taken into 
                the body. In various ways. 

                                    LUTHER
                And you -

  Henley s pleading eyes stop the question right there. Instead, 
Henley rolls up his sleeve - shows several PARALLEL SCARS.

                                    HENLEY
                  I let him do anything he wanted. I let 
                him suck blood from me. I sucked - 

The door opens. Ian Reed enters. An awkward moment.

                                    REED
                Ah. Sorry.

He closes the door, softly. Exits.

  A silent beat in the office. Luther recovers the moment.

                                    LUTHER
                  These things, Richard - whatever you 
                did or allowed to be done to you. You 
                  were doing something valiant. Every 
                  copper in this building knows that. 

                                    HENLEY
                It didn t help, though, did it.

                                    LUTHER
                So how did you come to - ?

                                    HENLEY
                I d been under cover fifteen months. I 
                  thought I d won his trust. This one 
                  night, we re in his flat. He gives me 
                  a glass of wine. I drink it - and wake 
                up tied to a chair. Turns out, he s 
                  known I m police from day one.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 14.


                                    LUTHER
                  How?

                                    HENLEY
                  A copper, we think. A leak in the 
                  investigation.

                                    LUTHER
                  Who?

                                    HENLEY
                We never knew. All I know, Burgess has 
                  spent those months playing mind games 
                  with me - making me believe he trusted 
                me, that I was making progress in the 
                  case. And you know that feeling when 
                  you re getting close to it, ending a 
                  really tough one?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, I know that feeling.

                                    HENLEY
                It made me do stuff I might not have 
                  done. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I know that feeling too.

                                    HENLEY
                  I was married. I was a married man. 

                                    LUTHER
                So you wake up. You re tied to a chair  

                                    HENLEY
                And he shows me a Polaroid of Grace 
                  Allen. And she s alive. Nearly two 
                  years later, she s still alive. In the 
                  picture, right next to her face, he s 
                  folded up that day s paper. Just to 
                  prove it. He says,  this is the 
                  closest you ll ever come.  And then he 
                  sets light to the picture. Burns it to 
                  ashes, right in front of me. Then he 
                cut me loose.

                                    LUTHER
                And you do this to him.

Photograph of a BADLY BRUISED BURGESS. 

                                    HENLEY
                  Yeah. That s what I did.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 15.



Reed lingers by Ripley s desk, Ripley s got himself a cup of 
tea. 

                                    REED
                  Who s that, in there?

                                    RIPLEY
                  That s Richard Henley. 

                                    REED
                  Richard Henley, ex-copper? That 
                  Richard Henley?

                                    RIPLEY
                  What s left of him, yeah.

                                    REED
                And who s in there with the Duchess?

  Teller s office. The back of Mark s head is only visible.

                                    RIPLEY
                  That s, erm, Mark North.

                                    REED
                  Right. Busy night, then.


SCENES 18 - 20 OMITTED


Mark and Teller. 

                                    MARK
                  I parked outside my house, like I do 
                  every night. They came swaggering up 
                the street - limping, one arm stiff at 
                  their side. Why do they do that, do 
                you think? Walk like that?

                                    TELLER
                Who exactly are  They ?

                                    MARK
                  Kids. Hoodies.Girls.

                                    TELLER
                  Girls?

                                    MARK
                  They shoulder-barged me. I said 
                   excuse me.  Then one of them, the 
                  leader, said;  That s all right, Mark. 
                  John says hello.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 16.


                                    TELLER
                   John says hello ?

                                    MARK
                  Word for word.

Out on Teller s appalled face.

SCENES 22 - 23 OMITTED


                                    LUTHER
                  Okay, we re nearly done here. I just 
                  need you to describe the Polaroid he 
                  showed you -

                                    HENLEY
                  I can t do that.

Yes you can.

                                    HENLEY(cont d)
                She was naked, in some kind of box - 
                  rectangular, not coffin shaped. 
                  Deeper, shorter. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Like what - like a chest freezer?

                                    HENLEY
                  Could be. She was tied at the wrists 
                and ankles with, I don t know. It was 
                too dark to see properly. She was very 
                  thin. And her eyes were - you ever 
                  seen a horse s eyes, when it s scared?

                                    LUTHER
                How could you read the newspaper?

                                    HENLEY
                  Sorry?

                                    LUTHER
                The box, the freezer, whatever it was: 
                  inside, it s too dark to make out 
                  details of the straps. But you could 
                  read the headline, you could see 
                  Grace s eyes.

                                    HENLEY
                  There was a light across her face. A 
                  reflection of the flash or something. 
                  Like a crescent of light.

Luther makes a note. Henley is judderinghis foot now, wildly. 
Barely in control.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 17.


                                    HENLEY(cont d)
                It was her eyes that did it. I wanted 
                to kill him. I knew it would cost me. 
                But I didn t care. I just wanted to 
                  kill him. 

Stands, shoves the chair away. Paces. Tormented.

                                    HENLEY(cont d)
                And to this day, the biggest regret of 
                my life is not killing him. You got 
                any idea how it feels, to feel like 
                  that?

Long beat.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah. Yeah, I know what that feels 
                  like.

Henley looks him in the face.

                                    HENLEY
                  Yeah, I heard that.

SCENE 25 OMITTED2525


Burgess smiles down at Kirsten. Opens his bag - we glimpse a 
  POLAROID CAMERA, CLEANING EQUIPMENT - SEVERAL LARGE ALUMINIUM 
FLASKS. 

  Tenderly, from the bag he removes the RUBBER TOURQUINETHE S 
ABOUT TO USE TO DRAIN KIRSTEN S BLOOD. Seeing it, her helpless 
terror intensifies.

She screams, through the gag.

SCENE 26AOMITTED26A26A


Luther enters. Reed is there, working his way through some 
  household bills.

                                    REED
                  What s happening?

                                    LUTHER
                You remember the Grace Allen case? 
                  Long time ago. Abduction.

                                    REED
                  Yeah, yeah. Lucien Burgess. Olympic 
                  quality mint cake. Into the old woo-
                  woo. Worships the devil, likes a bit 
                of blood now and again.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 18.


                                    LUTHER
                  That s him. He s staging a comeback.

                                    REED
                        (sits)
                No.

                                    LUTHER
                  What veyou got on?

                                    REED
                Bit of this, bit of that. Finessing a 
                  a new grass, mostly. Why?

                                    LUTHER
                You saw that Mark North was here?

                                    REED
                  I clocked it, yeah. You okay?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, I ll be all right - but listen, 
                  Burgess has got a victim out there, 
                  right now. God knows what she s going 
                  through. And I ve just spent an hour 
                  with the remains of Richard Henley. I 
                  want to take this bastard down so 
                  badly my teeth hurt. But I think today 
                  might get complicated for me. 

Beat.

                                    REED
                  Whatever you need, I m there.

SCENE 26COMITTED26C26C



SCENE27 OMITTED2727


Burgess lowers the lid of the freezer and locks it with a 
  padlock. From inside, muffled, comes Kirsten s TERRIBLE 
  SOBBING. 

He sits on the camping stool. His mouth is SMEARED RED. Like a 
  clown s. 

He seals the LAST THERMOS FLASK. Sets it down between his feet. 
With the others.


Luther and Teller.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 19.


                                    TELLER
                  Three guesses why Zoe s gentleman 
                  caller was here? 

                                    LUTHER
                To confess he s a dick?

                                    TELLER
                  He s been assaulted.

                                    LUTHER
                  Good.

                                    TELLER
                He blames you. 

                                    LUTHER
                Oh, come on. 

                                    TELLER
                You already came close to one 
                  suspension for assaulting him. So I m 
                  pretty much obliged to take this 
                  seriously.

                                    LUTHER
                The man s a fantasist.

                                    TELLER 
                The marks on his face aren't 
                  fantasies. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Kirsten Ross is alive out there. And 
                you bother me with this? Seriously?

Beat.

                                    TELLER
                  Okay. Okay, it s late. I'll take my 
                  time entering the paperwork. But I 
                  willbe entering it, first thing 
                  tomorrow - unless Mark North withdraws 
                his complaint before then. If he does, 
                  nobody need know this ever happened.

                                    LUTHER
                  Thank you.

                                    TELLER
                So go! Sod off! Speak to him. Be nice. 
                  Beg, if you have to.


Burgess stands - folds up the camping stool - leans it against 
the wall. Opens the BLACK BAG. From it, he takes a CLEANING 
KIT. A MINI VACUUM CLEANER. BLEACH. DRAIN CLEANER.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 20.


  Meticulously he begins to CLEAN THE SCENE - oblivious to 
  Kirsten s MUFFLED CRIES -

  Finally, he REMOVES THE PLASTIC SHEETING, folds it 
  meticulously, packs it away. All in the LARGE OVERNIGHT BAG.

He looks around. Satisfied. 

His last act before leaving is to PLUG IN THE FREEZER. With a 
MALEVOLENT HUM, it KICKS INTO LIFE.

He exits, to the sounds of Kirsten s TRAPPED PANIC.


Luther approaches an eager, antsy Ripley.

                                    LUTHER
                So?

                                    RIPLEY
                  I ran the blood from the Grace Allen 
                  Cold Case through every available 
                  database. 

ON SCREEN: Ripley shows Luther ANOTHER COLD CASE FILE.

                                    RIPLEY(cont d)
                The blood matches Precious Akingbade.
                  Found on the banks of a canal in 
                  Birmingham. Exsanguinated, genitally 
                  mutilated.

                                    LUTHER
                  I remember this. But it s years ago - 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Twenty years. 1990.

                                    LUTHER
                Two murders. Completely different MOs.
                  Separated by a decade and half a 
                  country. 

A beat, as they take in the enormity of it.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Burgess must vebeen - what? Twenty 
                  years old when he did this?

He s interrupted by BENNY DEADHEAD entering the unit. A bit 
  wide-eyed and unsteady. 

Luther breaks away from Ripley, approaches Benny.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Benny, I appreciate this.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 21.


                                    BENNY
                  That s okay. All it was, I was 
                  immersed in King Crimson and World of 
                  Warcraft.

                                    LUTHER
                  Much as I love you, I m not even going 
                to pretend to know what that means.

Follows Benny to his desk - 

                                    BENNY
                  What I m saying is, do I smell like 
                  I ve been smoking marijuana?

                                    LUTHER
                  Little bit, maybe. 

                                    BENNY
                You think anyone s going to notice?

They sit at BENNY S HOTDESK.Luther shows him the HAPPY 
  SLAPPING VIDEO.

                                    LUTHER
                  I need to ID these girls. Quietly as 
                you can.

                                    BENNY
                  I can do that.
                        (concerned)
                You okay?

                                    LUTHER
                  Will be, if you can tell me who these 
                  girls are. 

Benny leans closer - to a very blurry, pixelatedimage.  

                                    BENNY
                Not working from this, I can t. But 
                  I ve got some ideas. Give me an hour 
                or two. Or three.

Luther checks his watch. Pats Benny s shoulder. Hurries back to 

  RIPLEY'S DESK 

Where Ripley is checking out a WEBSITEcalled BAPHUMET.He 
shows it to Luther.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Burgess runs a little occult bookshop. 
                  Selling on-line, too.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 22.


                                    LUTHER
                        (leans close)
                  What s this?... A place for those who 
                  tread the left hand path.  
                        (Beat)
                You think Burgess will show up at work 
                  today?

                                    RIPLEY
                  It s got to look like a normal day for 
                  him. 

                                    LUTHER
                        (checks watch)
                  Good. Then I ll see you in a bit.

He grabs his jacket, exits.

SCENE 31AOMITTED31A31A

SCENE 32 OMITTED3232




Alice walks the empty corridor - on the phone.

                                    ALICE
                  According to you, yes.

  INTERCUT Alice and Luther

                                    LUTHER
                  What are you playing at?

                                    ALICE
                  I thought you wanted Zoe back.

                                    LUTHER
                And this is the way to do it? Have me 
                  blamed for getting Mark North beaten 
                up? Get me fired?

                                    ALICE
                  Trust me.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 23.


                                    LUTHER
                  Alice, I m in serious trouble, more 
                  trouble than you realise, I think. 
                  They ll send Complaints after me, some 
                  investigator who ll think it s 
                  Christmas if he gets my scalp.

                                    ALICE
                  You re not going to lose your job. Or 
                  your wife.

                                    LUTHER
                  Look, no more helping, okay? Stop 
                  helping. Please. Please, stop helping.

He hangs up. Gets into his car.


  Minimal. White walls, shelves of EXPENSIVE-LOOKING BOOKS.

The walls are hung with WEIRD PRINTS by FELICIENROPS, outr  
  illustrations by GUSTAV DORE. A large print of EliphasLevi 
  Baphomet sIN DOGMEET RITUELDE LA HAUTE MAGIE; the SIGILOF 
  BAPHOMET; the VALKNUT, a symbol consisting of three interlocked 
triangles. Quite a collection of OBSCURE EROTICA.

And a NUMBER OF PORTRAITS: wemight recognise ALEISTERCROWLEY. 
Most of the faces stare at the camera with the BLANK LOOK of 
  MUGSHOTS. Chances are, we don t recognise them. 

Luther looks around. Until Burgess appears from back of shop, 
shakes Luther s hand.

                                    BURGESS 
                  You re John?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah - how dyou get to that? 

                                    BURGESS
                We do most of our trading on-line - or 
                by appointment. 
                        (gestures)
                So. All yours. What s your pleasure?

Luther picks up a COLOURCATALOGUE from near the till. It s 
marked BAPHUMET:MURDERABILIA. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Five hundred quid for a poem 
                  handwritten and illustrated by the 
                  Yorkshire Ripper.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 24.


                  Seven hundred and fifty for a letter 
                  from the Ripper to a female 
                  correspondent -

                                    BURGESS
                It includes a small self-portrait: 
                  Sutcliffe snuggling up to a woman. 
                  Large breasted. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Clown paintings by John Wayne Gacey. 
                  Serial killer art? Is this stuff 
                  legal? Seriously? 

                                    BURGESS
                As long as the criminal himself 
                  doesn t profit, and we re very careful 
                  about provenance. But there s nothing 
                new under the sun: there used to be 
                  quite a trade in handkerchiefs dipped 
                in the blood of hanged men. Hair 
                  clippings, snuff boxes, fob chains, 
                  hats, garters, cravat pins.

                                    LUTHER
                So who buys it?

                                    BURGESS
                  Young women, mostly.

Luther gives him a connoisseur s nod - then goes to TWO 
PORTRAITS. One is black and white, circa 1940s. The second is 
an over colourised Polaroid, circa 1970s.

                                    LUTHER
                  Even stuff like this? Peter Kurten - 
                the vampire of Dusseldorf. Richard 
                  Trenton Chase, the Vampire of 
                  Sacramento. Women buy this stuff?

                                    BURGESS
                  It s a kink. A sex thing. A lot of 
                  women like to fantasise about - being 
                  tied up. Raped. Strangled. Eaten. 

                                    LUTHER
                You think?

                                    BURGESS
                The Hillside Stranglers, John Wayne 
                  Gacy, Ted Bundy, even Richard Ramirez 
                  there. They all married in prison. The 
                  more depraved the killer, the more 
                  women fawn on him. It s called 
                  Hybristophilia.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 25.


                                    LUTHER
                  Sexual arousal by thoughts of 
                  violence. 

                                    BURGESS
                  It s his willingness to murder that 
                  attracts her. His murder becomes hers. 

Beat.

                                    LUTHER
                So, yeah. I ve got a confession to 
                  make.

                                    BURGESS
                  Really?

Luther grins. Got me. He reaches into his bag. Comes out with A 
  PAPERBACK COPY OF BURGESS S BOOK -  SACRIFICIAL LAMB . 

                                    LUTHER
                  Would you mind? 

                                    BURGESS
                  A fan?

                                    LUTHER
                Got me. 

                                    BURGESS
                If I sign this book, its resale value 
                  increases hugely. I m putting money in 
                  your pocket.

                                    LUTHER
                  I know.

                                    BURGESS
                  You re a dealer?

                                    LUTHER
                  A collector. I ll pay. 

                                    BURGESS
                Two hundred and fifty. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Seriously? 

                                    BURGESS
                Oh, yes. I ve quite the following.

                                    LUTHER
                  Done.

Burgess nods. Luther hands him the book. Fumbles it. Drops it. 

On instinct, Burgess reaches out. Catches it -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 26.


- in his LEFT HAND. 

  A moment. Then Burgess sets down the book. Produces a pen. 
Holds it in his LEFT HAND - puts the nib to the paper - as if 
ABOUT TO SIGN. 

A long, glittering moment between him and Luther. Then he 
  TRANSFERS THE PENto HIS RIGHT HAND. Signs the book with a 
  flourish - and hands it back to Luther. Luther gives him the 
money.

  A moment between them. Amused, twinkling eye contact - as 
Luther hands over the cash. Then pockets the book and exits.

SCENE 36AOMITTED36A36A

SCENE 37 OMITTED3737




ANGLE ON THE FREEZER. Humming with baleful life. Kirsten s 
FRANTIC KNOCKING.


Stillness. The doorbell rings. An echo of the opening scene as 
Zoe comes downstairs. Opens the door. To Luther. 

                                  ZOE
                You come here today? Seriously?

He brushes past her, into the living room.


Mark stands, not without difficulty, as Luther enters.

                                    LUTHER
                  Mark - this has nothing to do with me. 

                                    MARK
                  They were waiting for me. They knew my 
                  name!

                                    LUTHER
                  Okay, look. I m going to need you to 
                  trust me.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 27.


                                    MARK
                  John, what you did: I understand it. I 
                  almost admire it: it was subtle, in a 
                  brutal way - which kind of sums you 
                up, really. But look at my face. Don t 
                  come here now and lie about it. Please 
                  don t do that.

                                    LUTHER
                If you do this, someone s going to get 
                  hurt. An innocent woman. And she s got 
                  nothing to do with this - with you and 
                me, all the rest of it.  

                                    MARK
                  And you re the only police officer in 
                  London, right? 

                                    LUTHER
                No, but she needs me. This woman needs 
                me.

                                    MARK
                You can t say you love Zoe and keep 
                  putting her through this. You need to 
                  stop. For her. For yourself. Just. 
                  Stop.

A beat. Then Luther steps in. Low and close.

                                    LUTHER
                I m asking you. Nice as I can. Please 
                  don t do this to me. 

                                    MARK
                  What exactly are you saying? If you re 
                  going to threaten me, then make a 
                  proper job of it. Say it loud and 
                  clear, so we all know where we are.

Then - oh God, please no, don t be there - Luther SLOWLY TURNS. 
To see that ZOE HAS ENTERED. She s looking at him. Completely 
  stunned.

  Humiliated, he faces her. Finds some dignity.

                                    LUTHER
                Zo, there s a lot I wish I d told you. 
                  About how ashamed I was of - things 
                I d done. How scared. I didn t do 
                  that. I didn t talk to you. But at 
                  least I didn t lie. And I m not lying 
                  now. I did not do this. I did not.

Mark and Zoe looking at him, and at each other, as he exits.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 28.


10.02

Ripley observes as - 


- of a ROOM FULL OF JOURNALISTSface Burgess, who sits behind a 
DESK, next to his PUBLICITY AGENT. He s addressing a MICROPHONE 
with APPARENT SHYNESS AND TIMIDITY. Reading a prepared 
statement.

                                    BURGESS 
                  I learned with terrible horror this 
                  morning of the disappearance of 
                  Kirsten Ross. My heart goes out to her 
                and to her family, especially her 
                  husband and her little daughter. But, 
                  having already received a visit this 
                  morning from a man whom I believe to 
                  have been a police officer -

  A MOMENT- as Burgess and Ripley lock eyes. 

                                    BURGESS (cont d)
                  - I ve called this press conference in 
                  anticipation of my arrest. I want to 
                say publicly, while I m still able, 
                  that I had nothing to do with this 
                  crime, just as I had nothing to do 
                  with the crime against poor Grace 
                  Allen. I pray that, this time, the 
                  Police Service can see past its own 
                  prejudice, its own desire to find a 
                  sacrificial lamb. 

                                    PRESS AGENT 
                  MrBurgess will now take questions.

Sudden pandemonium - flashes, hands in the air, bellowed 
questions. 



Ripley jams his hands in his pockets - storms away.



Teller turns to a pacing, frustrated Luther. 

                                    TELLER
                  Burgess has taken absolute control of 
                  this investigation. We can t go near 
                  him. 

                                    LUTHER
                And he won t let Kirsten Ross live. 
                Not for long. He can t afford to. Not 
                  when he knows we re on his back like 
                  this.

                                    TELLER 
                The order was - STAY AWAY FROM HIM!

                                    LUTHER
                  Boss, this was going to happen anyway. 
                He prepared it all - the abduction, 
                the press conference, everything. 

                                    TELLER
                So Kirsten Ross dies a lonely death 
                  while the media ensures we can t go 
                  near our only suspect?

A beat. Oh, Christ.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  So. I submitted Mark North s statement 
                  this morning.

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t take me off this. Not because of 
                  him. I can find her! I can find 
                  Kirsten!

                                    TELLER
                  I fought your corner and I fought it 
                  hard - nobody wants you off this. But 
                  there are caveats.

                                    LUTHER
                  What caveats?

Teller picks up her phone. 

                                    TELLER
                  Send him in.

A beat - on Luther s confusion. As DETECTIVE SUPERINTENDANT 
MARTIN SCHENK enters.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 30.


  Dishevelled, spectacled, nebbish, quite brilliant. He affects 
the bewildered air of a new curate in a new town. 

                                    SCHENK
                  Martin Schenk - Complaints. 
                        (they shake)
                  I know today isn t a good day, so all 
                I m asking is five minutes. You and I 
                sit down, chat, put this silliness to 
                  bed.

                                    LUTHER
                  Five minutes right now?

                                    SCHENK
                If possible.

                                    LUTHER
                Of course. Absolutely - it s just - 
                  I ve got an abduction and time s 
                  running short for the victim. Can I 
                  brief Sergeant Ripley about something?

                                    SCHENK
                  Absolutely. Please, go ahead. Brief 
                  away, keep the train moving.

Luther thanks him with a nod, exits.


Luther squats at Ripley s desk - points to Teller s office. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That man s about to suspend me. 

                                    RIPLEY
                He can t do that, can he?

                                    LUTHER
                  Can, has to, will. So we need to work 
                  quickly, here.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Still nothing solid. No forensics, 
                  eyewitnesses, CCTV. Nothing.

                                    LUTHER
                So revisit the Cold Cases. What did 
                  Burgess leave behind?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Nothing. The man s a ghost.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 31.


                                    LUTHER
                  Then that s something we know -




                                    RIPLEY
                So what we re looking for - is where 
                he kept Precious and Grace between the 
                  abduction and dumping the bodies. 
                        (checksfile)
                  Precious Akingbadelived and died in 
                  Birmingham. I can t see anything that 
                  links Burgess to the Midlands.

                                    LUTHER
                  Okay - forget the distance between 
                  them. What do the dumpsiteshave in 
                  common?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Industrial Estates. Easily accessible, 
                  lots of anonymous traffic.

Luther has the edge of something, the beginning of an idea. He 
rifles through his notebook. Glances at Teller s office.

                                    LUTHER
                  Henley described a light on the photo 
                of Grace Allen -

                                    RIPLEY
                  - bright enough to read the headlines. 
                  A reflection of the flash.

                                    LUTHER
                He said it lookedlike that. But what 
                if it wasn t? What if it was just 
                  daylight coming through a window. A 
                  round window.

And now - that moment of seeing it. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Precious Akingbadewas dumped by the 
                  side of a canal.

                                    LUTHER
                        (stabs finger on map)
                  Grace Allen was dumped - here. Easy 
                  access by road. But she s also less 
                  than a hundred metres from a waterway.
                        (Beat)
                  He s got a boat.

He claps Ripley's shoulder, then hustles over to Benny s desk - 
casting a NERVOUS GLANCE at Teller s office as he goes.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 32.


His POV: Teller and Schenk are making strained, polite 
  conversation.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  How s it going?

                                    BENNY
                Not so bad. The emailwas sent from an 
                  Internet cafe - by these young 
                  debutantes.

CCTV PORTRAIT of YOUNG GIRLS IN HOODIES, huddled round a PC. 

                                    LUTHER
                Can you get me a name?

                                    BENNY
                        (eyes darting to Teller s 
                        office)
                  I can try. What s going on?

                                    LUTHER
                  Nothing you can tell that man in 
                  there.
                        (They glance over, at Schenk)
                Is that okay with you?

                                    BENNY
                No problem. Where you going?

                                    LUTHER
                To see an authority on these matters. 

Then Luther turns - SNEAKS PAST Teller s office - gets his coat 
  - skulks to the door - and HURRIES OUT!


ANGLE ON THE FREEZER. Humming. From inside a SLOW, TERRIBLE 
TAPPING - a FADING CRY FOR HELP -

SCENE 45BOMITTED45B45B




The knocking has faded to an INTERMITTENT SCRATCHING- that 
slows to a STOP. 

From the humming freezer there emits instead a terrible, 
  wretched sobbing. The creepiest, loneliest sound in the world.

SCENE 46 OMITTED4646


Schenk emerges from Teller s office. Approaches Ripley.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 33.


                                    SCHENK
                  I was waiting for DCI Luther -

                                    RIPLEY
                        (vague)
                  Last time I saw him, Sir, he was 
                  headed that way - 

                                    SCHENK
                  Which way? This way?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Ish. Yes. Sort of. Absolutely.

Schenk slouches to Benny s desk - 

- with HALF-CONCEALED PANIC, Benny MINIMISES THE SCREEN.

                                    SCHENK
                  I wonder if you might have seen -

                                    BENNY
                No -

                                    SCHENK
                  - Detective Chief Inspector Luther?

They laugh. Polite. Schenk steals glances at Benny s computer.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                  You re Ben Silver - Tech Forensics? 

                                    BENNY
                  I am. That s who I am. Yes.

                                    SCHENK
                So what brings you in today?

                                    BENNY
                Big case.

Schenk thinks it over. Glances at Benny s laptop. Exits. 

Benny hits keys - pulls up LUTHER S EMAIL RECORDS - and there, 
fourth from top, is THE INCRIMINATING EMAIL.

Benny swallows - presses SECURE ERASE. 

ON SCREEN: WARNING! THIS ACTION CANNOT BE UNDONE

Benny PRESSES OKAY - never taking his eyes from Schenk, who is 
padding back to TELLER S OFFICE.


  A number of POSTGRADUATE STUDENTSare at work on the computers. 
Luther and Alice circle the lab. She s drinking bottled water.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 34.


                                    ALICE
                So what do you want? 

                                    LUTHER
                For you to help me catch someone. 

                                    ALICE
                  I was under the impression you wanted 
                me to stop helping.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, I take it back. 

                                    ALICE
                Say please.

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t push it.

                                    ALICE
                And how do I know you re not playing a 
                  double game - one stone, multiple 
                  birds? Trying to make me speak 
                  carelessly in order to entrap me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because that would be illegal -
                      (she laughs, delighted)
                And because I really need to catch 
                  this man, Alice. 

                                    ALICE
                  More than you want to catch me?

                                    LUTHER
                At the moment, yes. And I m running 
                out of time and options. 

                                    ALICE
                  Because if I thought you were about to 
                  lose interest in me, I d be 
                  inconsolable. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I just need a way into him, to know 
                  what it s like to be him. Not to feel 
                  anything. 

                                    ALICE
                  I feel things.

                                    LUTHER
                Not mercy.

                                    ALICE
                Not sentiment. The way I am isn t a 
                  disorder. It s functional.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 35.


                  Call it psychopathy if that makes you 
                  feel better. I don t see what 
                  difference it makes. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, well. You ve never been on the 
                  wrong end of it.

                                    ALICE
                  I can t empathise with this man s 
                  state of being, any more than you can - 
                  because, disregarding a single alleged 
                act carried out for very different 
                  alleged reasons, he and I might just 
                as well be from different species. 

                                    LUTHER
                  See, I d disagree. Murder s murder. 

                                    ALICE
                But it s not, is it? Not even to you. 
                  There s a difference between evil as 
                an absence of good - and evil as an 
                  calculated transgression. This man 
                  Burgess, he s just a naughty child 
                  showing off. You already know his flaw 
                  - his compulsion to dominate, to be in 
                  control. And you already know how to 
                  exploit that. 

                                    LUTHER
                  How?

                                    ALICE
                  Change the state of play.

                                    LUTHER
                  I tried that with you and it failed.

Playful beat.

                                    ALICE
                  Only just.

She teases him with a smile. He can t respond. Until, 
  galvanised, he exits.


Schenk at Ripley's shoulder, glancing through the OWEN LYNCH 
CASE FILE. Ripley's PHONE RINGS. 

                                    RIPLEY
                      (on phone)
                  Ripley.

His eyes flick to Schenk s. Schenk mouths:        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 36.


                                    SCHENK
                Is that Luther?

                                    RIPLEY
                        (nods to Schenk as he talks)
                  Will do - yes - okay - right away.

Ripley kills the call. 

                                    RIPLEY (cont d)
                DCI Luther s waiting for me outside. 

                                    SCHENK
                  I am very much obliged, Detective 
                  Sergeant Ripley.

                                    RIPLEY
                No problem, Sir.

Schenk leaves the unit, on his way to intercept Luther. 

A beat. Then LUTHER SNEAKS IN. Full of energy. 

Ripley grabs paperwork, hurries to meet him.


Luther jams a chair under the door handle. Then he and Ripley 
huddle, converse in HURRIED HALF WHISPERS, always keeping an 
eye on the door. Ripley practically bursting to show Luther 
what s he s been able to do.

                                    RIPLEY
                So I went through every record of 
                  stolen boats, 1988-1991. 

                                    LUTHER
                  And?

                                    RIPLEY
                        (fast)
                  First, there s way many. Turns out, 
                  boats get stolen a lot. So I m 
                  thinking, he needs a vessel that can 
                  navigate canals in Birmingham. That 
                  cuts the list a bit. 

Slaps down some OLD PHOTOGRAPHS of NARROW BOATS. 

                                    Ripley (cont d)
                All these were reported stolen in  89 - 
                  just as we went into the last 
                  recession, meaning, lots of bogus 
                  insurance claims. Six stolen boats, 
                six owners. I cross referenced the 
                  names against Burgess s known history -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 37.


                                    LUTHER
                And you get -?

                                    RIPLEY
                        (slaps down a photograph of)
                  Louis Gallant. Claimed for a stolen 
                  narrowboat, the Julia, in July  89. 
                  Suspected fraudulent claim, never 
                  proven. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Connection to Burgess?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Friends at Cambridge. Burgess and 
                  Gallant were arrested together on a 
                  charge of possession with intent to 
                  supply crack cocaine. That s a pretty 
                big charge for two middle-class white 
                  boys in 1989. Burgess took the fall 
                for it, did some time. Gallant walked.

                                    LUTHER
                So he was in Burgess s debt. We need -

                                    RIPLEY
                  Already done it. Louis Gallant s a 
                  family man with a serious job that s 
                  looking more credit crunched by the 
                  hour and mortgaged up the wazoo. He 
                  gave me everything I asked, in 
                  exchange for a promise not to drag him 
                  through court. 

                                    LUTHER
                So he sold the boat to Burgess?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Gave it to him. Even helped him forge 
                  a new registration number. It s easy 
                  done, apparently. Burgess renamed the 
                  boat the Isis.
                        (laysout copied documents)
                  Copy of the agreement to berth; 
                  houseboat licence; British waterways 
                  licence; council tax; insurance; Boat 
                  Safety certificate. 

Luther is impressed.

                                    RIPLEY (cont d)
                Now the bad news. All these documents 
                are in the name  Brian Summers ...

He slaps down an ENLARGEMENT OF THE BOATING LICENCE. The 
PHOTOGRAPH on it DOESN TSHOW LUCIEN BURGESSbut someone 
  bearded, pudgy, benign.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 38.


                                    Ripley (cont d)
                  - who looks like this. 

Luther examines the photograph of  Brian Summers . 

                                    LUTHER
                So what are we saying? Burgess used a 
                  proxy to get these licenses -

                                    RIPLEY
                  A friend, an out-of-work actor, a 
                  junkie, some con-artist he met in 
                  prison. Who knows?

                                    LUTHER
                We want to search this boat, we have 
                to connect it to the investigation. To 
                do that, we have to prove  Brian 
                  Summers  doesn t exist. We could spend 
                  weeks of due diligence, chasing our 
                  tails. 

    Thinks hard.Flexing his jaw. Checks his watch. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Insufficient evidence, search warrant 
                  denied. We go upstairs, they tell us, 
                   you don t have enough, go back, do 
                  your homework . So Kirsten Ross dies, 
                  Burgess dumps her body and walks. 
                  Again.

                                    RIPLEY
                So what do we do?

                                    LUTHER
                  Change the state of play. 


ANGLE ON THE FREEZER. Silence now. But for the humming of the 
  freezer.


Schenk re-enters, flustered, bewildered - and sees that 
  RIPLEY s DESK IS NOW EMPTY.

A beat. And Schenk, seeing what s happened, begins to LAUGH.


Luther and Ripley creep into -

Silence and semi-darkness. Barely any light gleams through 
  heavy-curtained windows. There s just the gentle shift, the 
gentle creak of the old narrowboat, gutted and semi-derelict.

They edge down the length of it. Until they reach the bedroom.


It s been stripped of everything - except an old CHEST FREEZER. 
  Battered. Rusty round the hinges. Much used.

                                    LUTHER
                        (whispers)
                My God. 
                        (stoops)
                  Kirsten. Kirsten, if you re in there. 
                My name is John Luther. I m a police 
                  officer. I m here to take you back to 
                  your family.

  Silence. Luther glances at Ripley. Then - hands shaking with 
anxiety - he begins picking the lock. His hand slips. The 
  lockpickCUTS HIM. He curses his own impatience and fear. Gets 
back to it.

The padlock opens. Luther sets it aside. Stands. Opens the lid 
of the freezer.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 40.


ANGLE ON HIS FACE as he sees - KIRSTEN ROSS. Curled up. 
Bloodless. 

And dead. 

She s FROZEN. Tears turned to jewels of ice on her cheek.

Luther sinks to the floor. Buries his face in his hands. Lost.


Mark is on the phone to work. 

                                    MARK
                No, nothing broken. A few stitches, 
                  some bruising, bit of a headache - no, 
                  I am - absolutely. I m fine.

Unseen, Zoe enters. Listens. 

                                    MARK (cont d)
                You can bike round the hard copies? 
                  Great, excellent.
                        (listens)
                We think it was the husband, yeah. 
                  He s got some issues he needs to work 
                  through -

He sees Zoe there. And the sadness in her eyes. She grabs her 
coat, puts it on. 

                                    MARK(cont d)
                  I ll call you back.
                        (hangsup)
                You off?

                                  ZOE
                  Yeah.

                                    MARK
                  Where?

                                  ZOE
                  I ve got to get out. Just for a bit. 
                  I ve got to. 

                                    MARK
                  What did I do? Did I do something?

                                  ZOE
                No. I m sorry. I m sorry. I just - 
                  it s John. He makes me so angry I 
                  don t know what to do. He makes me 
                  hate him. 

                                    MARK
                  Hey, come on.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 41.


                                  ZOE
                I m sorry. I ve got to - walk it off 
                or something.

She exits. Leaving Mark confused and bereft.


SCHENK puts down the file he s reading - as Ripley enters. 

                                    SCHENK
                  Detective Sergeant Ripley! How nice to 
                see you.

SCENE 60 OMITTED6060

SCENE 61 OMITTED6161        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 43.



Ripley is being interviewed by Schenk. He s torn. His first 
desire is to please and impress Schenk, a superior officer. But 
his loyalty to Luther exceeds that. This internal conflict 
makes him acutely anxious. 

                                    SCHENK
                So it wouldn t be too foolhardy of me 
                to suggest you accompanied Luther when 
                he absented himself this afternoon?

                                    RIPLEY
                  I did that, yes.

                                    SCHENK
                  Going where?

                                    RIPLEY
                We were pursuing the investigation 
                  into Kirsten Ross s abduction. Forgive 
                me sir, but do these questions fall 
                  within the parameters of your current 
                  enquiry?

                                    SCHENK
                  Well, who knowsuntil I ask them and 
                you answer? I wonder, does John Luther 
                  discuss his private life with you? 

                                    RIPLEY
                No. 

                                    SCHENK
                Not his wife, her lover?

                                    RIPLEY
                No.

                                    SCHENK
                  You re aware of his history of - 
                  instability.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 45.


                                    RIPLEY
                I m aware of it, yes, although I m not 
                  sure of its relevance.

                                    SCHENK
                  Well, it might be relevant if it ever 
                  gives you pause to question his 
                  judgement.

                                    RIPLEY
                My dad taught me to question all 
                  judgments, sir.

                                    SCHENK
                  I do apologise.I ll rephrase for 
                  clarity. How do you judge the quality 
                of John Luther s current operational 
                  decisions - ?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Well, it could be said that the merit 
                of any operational decision can only 
                be judged on its outcome. As long as 
                  that decision was taken within the 
                  boundaries of the law. 

                                    SCHENK
                It could be said, yes - but are you 
                  saying it?

                                    RIPLEY
                I m just saying, it could be said.

                                    SCHENK
                Do you know where Luther is, right 
                  this minute?

                                    RIPLEY
                  I do not, Sir.


Luther and Reed enter the narrowboat - edge along its gloomy 
length. And stand there. Looking at the freezer. 

A long, lingering look between Luther and Reed. Brotherhood. 
Silent agreement. 

Luther bends. Applies a BLOODY Q-TIPto the GAP BETWEEN TWO 
PLANKS in the FAR CORNER. 


                                    SCHENK
                  Once again, I ll rephrase. Do you have 
                any suspicions regarding his 
                  whereabouts?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 46.


                                    RIPLEY
                  Well,  suspicion  is a bit of a 
                  prejudicial word. 

                                    SCHENK
                Any assumptions, then?

                                    RIPLEY
                It would be wrong of me to assume 
                  without evidence, sir.

                                    SCHENK
                        (grins, taps his pen)
                  Wouldn t it, just. Wouldn t it.

  A UNIFORMED OFFICER knocks and enters. Schenk reads her face.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                Ah. You ve found him? Excellent.

He stands. Leaves the room. Out on Ripley s anxiety. 


Burgess is cleaning up his face. His PHONE RINGS - UNKNOWN 
NUMBER. He answers.

                                    BURGESS
                  Who s this?

SCENES 68 - 69 OMITTED


Mark is at his computer, working. Or trying to. He hears 
  FOOTSTEPS in the hallway - Zoe s home! He looks up, smiling. 
Only to see -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 50.


ALICE MORGAN! 

She enters, sits opposite him.

                                    ALICE
                  John Luther didn t do this to you, I m 
                  afraid. I did.

                                    MARK
                  Why? 

                                    ALICE
                  Because I couldn t help myself.

                                    MARK
                  I don t believe that. I don t think 
                  you, of all people, ever do anything 
                  unless you ve decided to do it.

                                    ALICE
                No, it s true. I m a bit like that. A 
                bit random. Slightly kooky.

                                    MARK
                  Kooky. 

                                    ALICE
                  Absolutely.

                                    MARK
                  Right.

                                    ALICE
                  Okay. Mark, I did it because I didn t 
                  like you. And because I wanted to toy 
                  with John. It s like pulling legs off 
                  flies. Very moreish, once you start. 

                                    MARK
                So why are you here, now?

                                    ALICE
                  Because I m sorry.

                                    MARK
                No you re not.

                                    ALICE
                No, I m not. I was trying to 
                  empathise. I m here because this has 
                  gone just far enough and what I need 
                you to do now is pick up the phone and 
                  withdraw the complaint. Please be 
                  credible.
                        (gives him his phone)
                  Soon as you like.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 51.


                                    MARK
                And if I don t? What if somebody were 
                  actually to stand up and refuse you? 

                                    ALICE
                  Well, then. I d have to leave. And 
                  then one night, I d have to come back. 
                And I d have to burn down your house 
                  while you and Zoe sleep safe in each 
                  other s arms.

Once again, she hands him the phone. 


Teller is on her way to a meeting, paperwork in hand. Her desk 
phone rings. She ignores it. It keeps ringing.

  Hesitates in the doorway. Glances at her watch.

Sod it. Goes back to the phone. Answers.

                                    TELLER
                  Teller 
                        (beat)
                Mr North?

On her growing consternation as she listens.


Steps inside, full of animal caution. He squats - sets down the 
bag - examines the LID OF THE FREEZER. 

He can t help it. He lifts the lid. Stares down inside.

Closes the lid. 

Then begins SPRAYING LUMINOL around the area. The freezer 
first. He sprays - then shines an INFRA-RED TORCH - examines 
the area with FORENSIC CONCENTRATION. 

No blood trace.

He s fretful. He sprays an area of FLOOR NEXT TO THE FREEZER 

Gets on his knees - shines the INFRA-RED TORCH. He s working 
very, very hard to be patient. Hating this loss of control. But 
making sure nothing is missed. 

Slowly, methodically, agonisingly - he MOVES CLOSER to the 
place where LUTHER PLANTED THE BLOOD. 

  SPRITZES LUMINOL - sweeps the floor with the infra-red beam. 

Comes CLOSER AND CLOSERto the blood spot!

Comes SO CLOSE WE CAN T STAND IT. He s less than a foot away  
he sprays more Luminol - 

He s inches away - he sprays more Luminol

He s IN THE CORNER- he sprays Luminol - shines the torch -

And the TINY SPOT OF BLOOD LUTHER PLANTED GLOWS SPECTRALLY BLUE-
WHITE IN THE INFRA-RED BEAM! 

Burgess has found it!         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 54.


                                    BURGESS
                Oh, I ve got you, I ve got you 

He opens the bag. Fingers and thumbs now, in his desperation to 
be gone, to regain control. 

He DOUSES THE BLOOD SPOT IN DOMESTIC DRAIN CLEANER - then 
VIGOROUSLY BEGINS TO SCRUB IT!

He SCRUBS AND SCRUBS. All the while, he s snarling, desperate 
to be gone from here, to be safe. 

And then he stands. Done. Satisfied.

And turns.

A TORCH SNAPS ON. SHINES DIRECTLY INTO HIS EYES. 

Burgess blinks, steps back.

Behind the glare, it s JOHN LUTHER. He s been waiting there, in 
the darkness. Watching.

                                    LUTHER
                All right, Lucien. That s enough.

                                    BURGESS
                  Drain cleaner. Destroys DNA. You 
                  seriously think you get to entrap me 
                  with planted evidence?

                                    LUTHER
                Not really, no. That s blood I took 
                  from a nice bit of sirloin I picked up 
                for my tea. I m going to have a little 
                  celebration. Because all that matters 
                is - you re here, at the crime scene. 
                You knew where it was. You came of 
                  your own free will. You brought 
                  Luminol. To look for blood traces.

                                    BURGESS
                  That won t be enough.

                                    LUTHER
                Oh, I think it ll do. 

                                    BURGESS
                  A policeman called me. He told me you 
                  were framing me. He told me where the 
                  crime scene was. 

                                    LUTHER
                And that ll be your defence, will it?

                                    BURGESS
                  Yes.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 55.


                                    LUTHER
                  Well, I ll look forward to you proving 
                it.

                                    BURGESS
                  Don t think I won t be able to.

Luther thinks. Then steps forward and GRABS BURGESS. Opens the 
freezer - 

And THROWS HIM IN THERE. With the body. SHUTS THE LID.

  Burgess s SCREAMS ARE MUFFLED - terrified. Luther holds the lid 
closed. For TOO LONG. Tempted to leave him in there.

Then Luther OPENS THE LID. Peers inside. 

                                    LUTHER
                  What you ve got on you now. And what 
                  she s got on her. It s called trace 
                  evidence. 

He hauls Burgess out of the freezer. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Fibres. Bits of hair and skin and what 
                  have you. 

Dumps Burgess on the floor, cuffs him.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  That ll be enough.

He digs out his phone. Dials.

SCENE 78 OMITTED7878


Luther finishes filling out a REPORT. Benny approaches.

                                    BENNY
                  Good day s work?

                                    LUTHER
                  Goodish. 

                                    BENNY
                So anyway.

Passes Luther a HARD COPY CCTV IMAGE. It shows ALICE MORGAN 
MEETING WITH THE GIRL WHO SENT THE HAPPY SLAPPING VIDEO.

                                    BENNY(cont d)
                  This is her - meeting with the lass 
                who beat up your wife s boyfriend. 
                  Giving her money. Drugs, maybe. Either 
                  way, you ve got her.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 56.


Luther smiles - a little sadly, maybe. Shakes Benny s hand. 

                                    BENNY(cont d)
                You take care, now. Beware of geeks 
                  bearing gifts.

Luther thoughtful as he tucks the photos into his pocket, heads 
for the door. And BUMPS INTO RIPLEY. A strange, strained beat.

                                    LUTHER
                  Look, Justin -

                                    RIPLEY
                  I said nothing. And I won t say 
                  anything.

Luther nods. Thank you.

                                    Ripley (cont d)
                But you can t go on like this. You 
                  just can t.

A long beat. An understanding. Ripley steps aside, allowing 
Luther to pass. 

                                                                              FADE TO:

SCENE 80 OMITTED8080


Luther lets himself in. Beyond exhausted. Shuts the door.

And SENSES A PRESENCE in the flat. CAUTIOUS AND ALERT, he steps 
inside. And there - is ZOE!

                                    LUTHER
                Oh. Wow. Okay. Hello. I wasn t - how 
                are you? What are you doing here?

                                  ZOE
                  Saying sorry.

                                    LUTHER
                For what?

                                  ZOE
                For not believing you. 

She takes a step - tentative at first. 

                                    ZOE(cont d)
                  What they said you did, it isn t in 
                  your nature. I should ve known that. 
                Of all the people in the world, I 
                  should ve known. And I should have 
                  said something. Been there.
                        (Steps closer. Touches his 
                        lapel)
                  You re obsessive, you re driven. God 
                  knows you re misguided.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 58.


                But what you never are is a liar. Not 
                to me. Or a coward. Ever.

He opens his mouth to say something. She shushes him, gently.

Reaches out. Touches his face. Her touch is ecstasy and misery 
to him.

                                    LUTHER
                Zoe -

                                  ZOE
                  Shhhh.

A long, long moment between them. And then - 

- he s kissing her. 


Alice watches at the window. As the LIGHT IN LUTHER S WINDOW 
GOES OUT-


Henry Madsenlies still as the dead. The STEADY RHYTHMof the 
heart monitor. The METRONOME of his breathing.

And the SUDDEN SPIKING of his BRAIN WAVE ACTIVITY. We linger on 
it for several moments. A SPIKE. A LULL. Then a SECOND, HIGHER 
SPIKE. 

And a THIRD. Higher yet. 

  Madsenis waking.

                                                                      END OF EPISODE