
It s dawn. Zoe Luther lies in bed - next to Mark North. She s 
awake, watching him. Innocent in sleep. Content. 

Zoe makes a decision - sneaks out of bed, grabs her phone from 
the bedside table - slinks downstairs.


A small STUDIOFLAT - piled high with BOOKS, CDs, a LAPTOP on 
the desk, piles of PAPERWORK, CLOTHES ON A RAIL in one corner, 
four or five IDENTICAL SUITS, five IDENTICAL WHITE SHIRTS, 
several TIES hanging from a tie holder like a Technicolor 
jellyfish. A SIGNED PHOTOGRAPHof plastic soul period DAVID 
BOWIE.

JOHN LUTHERis fast asleep. A mattress on the floor. 


The slow, steady tracking of the EEGMONITOR....hitting higher 
  peaks...deeper troughs...higher peaks...deeper troughs....

HENRY MADSENlies in darkness. Inert as the dead. As we track 
up his unmoving body we see - his EYES ARE WIDE OPEN!

                                            GOT TO TITLES - THEN FADE UP TO:        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 2.



MARTIN SCHENK, dishevelled and bed-headed, waits while Rose 
Teller hastens down the corridor.

                                  SCHENK
                I m sorry to wake you, Ma am. But I 
                thought it best.

                                  TELLER
                So what s the prognosis?

Their POV:A DOCTOR is with Madsen.

                                  SCHENK
                  Officially, it s too early to say. 

                                  TELLER
                  Unofficially -?

                                  SCHENK
                He s looking very good.

OUT ON THEIR POV:with the assistance of TWO NURSES, Madsen 
tries to sip water through a straw. Weak as a kitten.


LINDA SHAND, in socks and dressing gown, is making tea. The 
back door opens - Graham enters. 

                                  LINDA
                      (yawns)
                Morning, love.

                                  GRAHAM
                Morning.

She gives him a peck on the cheek - Graham holds up his hands 
as if in surrender - 

                                    GRAHAM(cont d)
                Whoah! Dirty hands! Greasy hands!

He goes to the sink, washes his hands in Swarfega, dries them 
on a tea towel. 

                                  LINDA
                Kettle s on.

She turns her back. His eyes on her. Full of loathing.

SCENE 8 OMITTED88        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 3.



Luther is woken by his PHONE RINGING. It s under his pillow. 

                                  LUTHER
                      (answers)
                Zo?


Zoe s on the phone, making coffee at an expensive-looking 
machine.

                                  ZOE
                I just rang to see - are you okay? 

INTERCUT ZOE and LUTHER

                                  LUTHER
                I m great. I m great!

                                  ZOE
                You sound sleepy.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. I was asleep.

                                  ZOE
                Actual sleep sleep?

                                  LUTHER
                Actual sleep sleep.Best sleep since I 
                don t know when. Well, I do know when.

She winces.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                So - what s next? What s the protocol?

                                  ZOE
                Protocol for what?

                                  LUTHER
                I ve never had an affair before. I m 
                not sure what to do. Is it even called 
                an affair, when you re sleeping with 
                your wife behind her lover s back?

Beat.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                What s wrong?

She s melancholy, reflective. She glances up at the ceiling, 
where Mark lies sleeping. Doesn t answer. Can t.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 4.


                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                      (misreading her)
                If this is about Alice Morgan - if 
                you re worried about her, then I ll 
                deal with it. I ll make her go away.

He gets a CALL WAITING signal. Ignores it.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Don t worry about Alice. She s gone. 
                Don t worry about anything. Things are 
                different.

Zoe glances up - sharply - at A NOISE upstairs. A door opening.

                                  ZOE
                I ve got to go. 

She hangs up. Clears the call from her call register. Then gets 
on with making coffee.

Mark shuffles in. Wearing pyjamas. Fuddled. Seeing him, Zoe s 
eyes soften. 

                                  MARK
                Morning.

                                  ZOE
                Coffee s on.

                                  MARK
                You re up early.

                                  ZOE
                Couldn t sleep. 

He goes to the fridge. She watches him. Pain on her face.


Luther lies there - preoccupied, hands laced behind his head - 
thinking about how to keep his own promise.

There s KNOCK AT THE DOOR. He ignores it. 

Another knock, more urgent. He gets up - boxers and T-shirt - 
shambles to the door. Opens it on TELLER 

                                  TELLER
                I called.

                                  LUTHER
                I was sleeping.

                                  TELLER
                What is this, some freakish parallel 
                universe?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 5.


                      (Looks around)
                This it? 

                                  LUTHER
                This is it.

                                  TELLER
                Wow.

Luther goes to the kitchenette, fills the kettle.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                So anyway. He s awake.

                                  LUTHER
                Who?

                                  TELLER
                Henry Madsen.

Water over-runs the kettle s spout. 

                                  LUTHER
                What does that mean? 

                                  TELLER
                I don t know. What does it mean?

                                  LUTHER
                I mean, how awake is awake?

                                  TELLER
                First few days, they expect him to be 
                responsive maybe a few minutes at a 
                time. He ll be very confused. 

Luther waits for the rest of it, kettle in hand.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                But, given time, they think he ll be 
                able to speak. 

                                  LUTHER
                Right.

                                  TELLER
                So is that bad? 

                                  LUTHER
                No. No, it s fine.

                                  TELLER
                What s he going to say?

                                  LUTHER
                Does it matter? He s a hostile 
                witness. There s no guessing what lies 
                he ll tell.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 6.


She interrogates him with a silent gaze. He turns his back, 
puts the kettle on to boil, rinses a couple of mugs. 

                                  TELLER
                You need to stay away from him.

                                  LUTHER
                I m sorry - what?

                                  TELLER
                Stay away from him.

                                  LUTHER
                Boss, come on -

She holds his gaze. He looks away first. 

                                  TELLER
                Put the kettle down. Get dressed. 


Teller and Reed are briefing the SCU - ALL PERSONNEL. A VIDEO 
SCREEN, MAPS. 

Luther stays in his office, listening, pacing. He bounces a 
SMALL BALLas he watches VIDEO SCREENSwhich show VICTIM 1 - 
AMANDA CROUCH - walking an empty street. 

Ghostly image of a dead woman. 

INTERCUT THE BRIEFING AND LUTHER - pacing, bouncing the ball 
off the wall, catching it. Thinking.

                                  TELLER
                      (invokes map on screen)
                Three previous victims were found in 
                Isleworth, Whitton, West Drayfield. 
                All of them were walking home alone.

                                  REED
                The dump sites are far apart but 
                broadly similar, near trading estates. 
                So the Met thinks maybe our man is or 
                was a delivery driver or something 
                similar. Hence  White Van Man .

INTERCUT THE BRIEFING AND LUTHER - pacing, bouncing the ball 
off the wall, catching it. Thinking.

                                  TELLER
                The Met reviewed more than two 
                thousand hours of CCTV footage.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 8.


                Tracked down and eliminated all vans 
                and other commercial vehicles within a 
                    two-kilometrebulls-eye zone. They 
                  interviewed two thousand drivers. 
                Those who couldn t be eliminated were 
                added to the suspect pool -

She invokes A SCROLLING WALL OF MALE FACES. HUNDREDS OF THEM. 

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                They failed to eliminate thirty-five 
                vehicles - eighteen small vans, two 
                  Commerstyle vehicles, seven taxis, an 
                ice-cream van, and a number of private 
                vehicles -

She INVOKES THEM ON SCREEN - ghostly images of half-seen 
vehicles on quiet London streets. 

                                  REED
                Tactical Unit 1, under my command, 
                will concentrate on last night s 
                murder of Monica Poole.  

                                  TELLER
                Tactical Unit 2 will be based here 
                under the command of Detective Chief 
                Inspector Luther. You ll review 
                existing case evidence pertaining to 
                previous victims. Focus on the suspect 
                pool, eliminate those unidentified 
                vehicles.
                      (beat)
                Be in no doubt. Our man is locked into 
                a pattern of rapid escalation. He s 
                going to kill again, very soon. Except 
                we re going to catch him before he 
                gets the chance.

The briefing ends. The officers split into assigned tactical 
groups. Teller heads to Luther s office - enters.

Luther stops pacing. Catches the ball.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                You all right in here?

                                  LUTHER
                Just thinking.  

He nods at the suspect pool, up there on the screen.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                History of cases like this says - he s 
                already in the database somewhere. We 
                just need to winkle him out.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 9.


                So the best place to catch this 
                bastard is right here, in this room. 
                So I m just thinking.

                                  TELLER
                Good.

She exits. He paces. Bounces the ball. Catches it.

SCENES 13A- 13COMITTED


Graham sitting on the edge of the bed. Feet flat on the floor. 
Hands on his thighs. Rigid as a statue. Listening to the radio.

                                  RADIO ANNOUNCER
                ...body of a young woman found on a 
                soccer field near Wandsworth Common...

He reaches into his pocket. Takes out the SILVER NECKLACE WITH 
A MOON PENDANT. Not new. Tarnished with wear. He puts it close 
to his neck. Sniffs at it. 

Turns a WEDDING PHOTOGRAPH on the bedside table so that Linda 
seems to be looking at him.

ANGLE ON GRAHAM S FACE as he moves his hands down his lap - 
holding the necklace - begins to masturbate - 


Ripley and Luther before video screens showing footage of 
AMANDA CROUCH - walking an empty street. Ghostly.

Ripley flicks through PHOTOS OF EACH OF THE VICTIMS.

                                  RIPLEY
                Textbook, after the first kill he 
                enters the depressive phase. He can t 
                believe what he s done. Until the urge 
                builds again, becomes uncontrollable. 
                The cooling off periods get shorter 
                and shorter. But not this quickly. So 
                what s driving the escalation? 

                                  LUTHER
                You got any sexual fantasies?

                                  RIPLEY
                None I d tell you about.

                                  LUTHER
                But you ever get to, y know- act on 
                them?

                                  RIPLEY
                You ever been to Ibiza?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 10.


                                  LUTHER
                The reality live up to the fantasy?

                                  RIPLEY
                  I...well...no. Not really. No. Waste 
                of a holiday, really.

                                  LUTHER
                See, it never does. It can t. Because, 
                in the end, an orgasm s just an 
                orgasm.  

                                  RIPLEY
                But that doesn t account for the pace 
                of escalation.

                                  LUTHER
                No, it doesn t. We re not looking at a 
                release, here - we re looking at an 
                explosion, the lid coming off a 
                pressure cooker. A man who s been 
                  controlling his compulsions, keeping 
                on top of them for years - until now. 
                So why s that? What makes him let go 
                like this?

                                  RIPLEY 
                The trigger event is often some kind 
                of perceived humiliation - loss of 
                job, loss of spouse - 

Luther s phone rings. ANGLE ON PHONE: it s Alice. He turns 
away, tries to hide his anxiety from Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                Excuse me, I have to take this.

He walks out. Ripley s eyes on him. 


A GLASS FULL OF SILVER CLEANER - from which Graham fishes the 
SILVER NECKLACE WITH A MOON PENDANT. Shining like new.

Also on the table: a small black RING BOX. Some SELLOTAPE. 
WRAPPING PAPER -


Luther approaches Alice.

                                  ALICE
                Police arrested two kids yesterday: 
                one was drinking battery acid, the 
                other was eating fireworks. They 
                charged one and let the other one off. 
                      (Beat)
                Tommy Cooper. Boom boom.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 11.


                                  LUTHER
                What do you want? 

                                  ALICE
                To gloat about my matchmaking.So how 
                was it? Everything you dreamed of? Did 
                the fantasy match the reality?

                                  LUTHER
                I can t talk about this, not now. 

                                  ALICE
                Are you shy about discussing sex with 
                me? Because I do know what goes where.

Long beat. Luther prepares to play his gambit. Take the plunge.

                                  LUTHER
                It s not about me and Zoe.

                                  ALICE
                What, then?

                                  LUTHER
                Henry Madsen woke up.

He waits for her reaction. Her face falls. She s thunderstruck.

                                  ALICE
                Are you in trouble?

                                  LUTHER
                Maybe. It s possible, yeah. I might 
                be.

                                  ALICE
                Is there brain damage?

                                  LUTHER
                They don t know yet, not for sure. 
                What I do know, I m going to be under 
                  surveillance. My movements, my phone 
                calls - everything. 

                                  ALICE
                Why?

                                  LUTHER
                They re worried I might sneak in 
                there, finish the job.

                                  ALICE
                You might be mad. You re not stupid.

                                  LUTHER
                Listen - this, whatever it is. I can t 
                see you any more. 
                      (off her stunned face)        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 12.


                I can tsee you, I can t speak to you - 
                not until this Madsen thing is 
                resolved. I m sorry. I really am. 

He s half surprised himself to find that he really is. And he s 
troubled - a bit confused - by the seismic effect this news is 
having on Alice. She seems - volatile.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Alice, I m sorry. I m really, really 
                sorry. But no more. Not while Madsen s 
                hanging over me like this. 
                      (a sad look. A shrug of the 
                        shoulders)
                It s over. 

                                  ALICE
                No.

                                  LUTHER
                Yes. I ve got to go. Work to do.

He turns. Walks away. She watches him exit the building.

                                  ALICE
                No.


Linda enters, weary after work. 

                                  LINDA
                Gray? You home, love?

                                  GRAHAM (O.S.)
                In here!


He s watching the news - foot jiggling on the floor. He mutes 
the TV as Linda enters - stands, lays down the remote control. 
Looks at her - reaches into his pocket. Takes out the JEWELLERY
BOX.

                                  GRAHAM
                Happy Birthday.

                                  LINDA
                Oh, God - Gray. I thought you d 
                forgotten.

                                  GRAHAM
                Of course not. Never. Never, never.
                        (he sexcited, overly 
                        attentive)
                Come on, sit - sit down, relax - put 
                down your bag - open your present -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 13.


Linda allows herself to be manipulated - she sits - tries to 
smile - begins unwrapping - takes out the MOON PENDANT 
NECKLACE.

                                  LINDA
                Oh - gosh. Goodness gracious. It s 
                really lovely - it s lovely -

                                  GRAHAM
                Put it on.

                                  LINDA
                Help me with the clasp. 

He helps put the necklace on. He s breathing heavily, aroused 
by the symbolism of the necklace at her throat.

                                  Linda (cont d)
                How does it look?

                                  GRAHAM
                Stand up. Let me see.

She hesitates -

                                    GRAHAM(cont d)
                      (fidgety, grinning)
                Come on - stand up - stand up.
                      (shestands)
                Oh, it looks lovely. Really lovely. 
                Really gorgeous.

He begins passionately to maul her neck - grunting with the 
violence of his arousal - 

- as Linda works hard to conceal her disgust.


Luther watches the CCTV footage of London traffic. Hypnotised. 
Flicking from screen to screen to screen. Watching the vehicles 
that can t be identified - all of them - car to van, taxi to 
van, car to van -  

He takes PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES, shuffles 
them like playing cards. Then throws them randomly, all over 
the floor of his office.


Graham and Linda come through the doors and down the stairs - 


Karaoke is in full swing. As Graham and Linda walk inside, A 
TABLE OF FRIENDS stands up - six or eight people, men and 
women, one of whom is DENNIS KEATON.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 14.


                                  DENNIS
                Gray! Mate! 
                        (shakesGraham s hand)
                Linda - happy birthday!

Pecks her on the cheek.

An awkward moment. Complex glances are exchanged between the 
three of them - before Linda is dragged into the kisses hello, 
the congratulations, the offers of drinks -


Luther is alone. Tired round the eyes. Tie loose at his throat. 
He s eating pizza, sipping an energy drink. He picks up the 
phone and dials Zoe s number. No answer.

Looking at the RANDOM DISTRIBUTION OF PAPERWORK on the floor - 
the unidentified vehicles, CCTV stills of the victims. His eyes 
take in DISCONNECTED DETAILS.

Ripley enters. Sees the mess.

                                  RIPLEY
                You need help clearing this up?

                                  LUTHER
                It s meant to be like this.

                                  RIPLEY
                Seriously?

                                  LUTHER
                D coupage- cut-up technique. Take a 
                text, any text. Cut it up into smaller 
                portions, randomiseit. Create new 
                text. See new patterns. 

                                  RIPLEY
                That works?

                                  LUTHER
                Sometimes.

                                  RIPLEY
                Where dyou learn this?

                                  LUTHER
                David Bowie. 

                                  RIPLEY
                As in, Let s Dance?

                                  LUTHER
                As in, Station to Station. It s how he 
                wrote his lyrics.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 15.


                                  RIPLEY
                You a fan?

                                  LUTHER
                I don t look like a fan?

                                  RIPLEY
                What - of songs about, like, aliens 
                and that? 

                                  LUTHER
                Well, there s a bit more to him than 
                aliens. I ll do you a tape, if you 
                like.

                                  RIPLEY
                A what, sorry?

They lock eyes. A teasing beat.The trust coming back. Broken 
by Reed entering.

                                  REED
                Ah. You ve gone all David Bowie on us.

                                  LUTHER
                You get anything?

                                  REED
                Cause of death confirmed. He chokes 
                them. No forensics to speak of. No 
                witnesses.
                      (sits, massages his face)
                Spent the day interviewing family. Her 
                dad s dead - so there s mother, one 
                sister, one boyfriend, long term. 

                                  LUTHER
                He on the list?

                                  REED
                Pulling a night-shift. Double time. 
                Twenty witnesses. 

Luther looking at the photographs.

                                  REED(cont d)
                I took him through the inventory - 
                stuff our man left round her. 

                                  LUTHER
                Anything missing?

                                  REED
                Necklace. Pendant on the end, silver 
                moon. 

Passes Luther a photograph - Monica Poole laughing, arm in arm 
with her boyfriend. Wearing the silver moon necklace.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 16.


Luther looks at it - then gently drops it with the rest of the 
stuff on the floor.

                                  LUTHER
                He s taking souvenirs. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Okay. Owning them evokes the feeling 
                of power he felt during the kill. Some 
                of these men keep news clippings, 
                  photographs, whatever. The fact it s 
                jewellery-

                                  LUTHER
                Might suggest he s in a relationship. 

                                  RIPLEY
                He d give the necklace to his wife, 
                  girlfriend. Every time he sees it, 
                he s carried back to the kill. 

                                  REED
                But the suddenness of it? What kicks 
                him off like that?

                                  LUTHER
                She s about to leave him. He s 
                desperate to keep her. It pushes him 
                over the edge.

  Uncomfortable beat. Somewhere, far off, a pin drops.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Okay - got you. And no, no, no, no, 
                no. Just because we ve all been hurt 
                and betrayed in our time, it doesn t 
                mean he s like us, or we re like him. 
                We don t need insight into his 
                tortured soul to understand him. He 
                hates women and likes killing them. 
                That s all we need to know about him, 
                except who the hell he is and where 
                the hell he s at.

Okay? Right. He gets back to it.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                So - the victim was getting married?

                                  REED
                Next month. 

                                  LUTHER
                They happy?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 17.


                                  REED
                Childhood sweethearts. He looks like a 
                young Damon Albarn, faithful as a 
                hound. Working nights to pay for the 
                wedding. 

                                  LUTHER
                So why s she walking home alone?

                                  REED
                Been to meet friends in the pub, talk 
                about the hen night - 

                                  LUTHER
                All the friends eliminated?

                                  REED
                All eliminated. She s walked home that 
                way a thousand times before - 

Luther s eyes flicking over the images. 

                                  LUTHER
                So - she s engaged, she s happy, she s 
                on home ground. She s not going to 
                stop to chat with Jack the Lad in his 
                white van, is she? So how does our man 
                get her in the van? 

                                  RIPLEY
                Blitz attack. He gets out, clobbers 
                her, drags her into the van.

                                  LUTHER 
                No sign of that. No screams, no 
                reports of altercation.

                                  REED
                She gets in voluntarily.

                                  LUTHER
                Could be.

                                  REED
                How s he make her do that?

                                  RIPLEY
                He s trusted. Knows her, maybe?

                                  REED
                He can t have known all four of them. 

                                  LUTHER
                But they all trusted him.

He looks at the pictures of the UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES - And 
sees it.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 18.


                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                We re looking for a taxi driver.

SCENE 24 OMITTED2424


Graham washes his hands. And we see him in this PRIVATE MOMENT, 
examining his own face in the bathroom mirror. An animal.  He 
leaves - steps out into the RAUCOUS NOISE of the pub.


All the friends round the table - laughing and joking. 

Linda meets Dennis s eyes. A fraction too long. She toys 
nervously with her necklace.

Graham emerges from the gents. Heads towards the party - squats 
as Linda's side.

                                  GRAHAM
                Sorry, love. Got to go!

                                  LINDA
                That s all right!

                                  GRAHAM
                Happy birthday! You enjoy yourself!

His eyes flick to the necklace. He grins, slaps Dennis on the 
shoulder. 

                                    GRAHAM(cont d)
                Look after her for me, mate! Make sure 
                she has a good time!

                                  DENNIS
                Will do!

                                  GRAHAM
                      (low)
                Sorry we were running a bit late 
                tonight, mate. I had to give her one - 
                for her birthday. How she likes it - 
                good and hard and long. Tell the 
                truth, I m surprised she can walk. 

He leers - adjusts his crotch - then exits. Dennis s smile 
falters. So does Linda's. They watch him go.


Graham at the wheel. A predator.


Luther steps inside. Looking at the CCTV screens. All those 
black cabs. Mixture of day and night shots. We leave him there, 
restless and strained as we -

                                                                              FADE TO:


A NURSE passes the BORED POLICE GUARD stationed at the door - 
gives him a nod hello. He nods back - returns to his magazine. 
The nurse steps into Madsen s room -


- and sees that, once again, MADSEN S EYES ARE OPEN. She 
hurries closer, concerned and attentive - 

- sees Madsen s LIPS ARE MOVING. Minutely. Almost silently. 
Trying to form a word through cracked lips. All she hears is 
breathing. She edges closer - closer - closer still - 

- puts an ear to his lips. And listens - 

                                                                      SMASH CUT TO:


Teller strides through the Bullpen - past BUSY STAFF monitoring 
the passage of THOUSANDS OF TAXIS on London streets -


She enters - sees the astonishing mess, rolls her eyes. Luther 
passes her a REPORT- she ignores that too, sets it aside.

                                  LUTHER
                What s wrong?

                                  TELLER
                Henry Madsen is talking. 

Beat. Their eyes lock. 

                                  LUTHER
                What s he saying?

                                  TELLER
                The doctors won t let us anywhere near 
                him - not yet. So right now, anything  
                he might say means nothing. It s 
                  inadmissible. Hearsay.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 20.


                                  LUTHER
                Boss, what s he saying?

                                  TELLER
                Your name. Or something like it.

                                  LUTHER
                      (looking nauseated)
                Right. Okay. Okay...okay.

He turns, faces the bullpen. Gets himself together. Picks up 
the report she set aside. Puts it in her hands.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                A few minutes ago we got this - 

ANGLE ON CCTV - a taxi performs a U-turn on a suburban street.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                This is the south end of Broughton
                Row. Less than half a mile away. 
                That s the closest hit.

                                  TELLER
                We get the driver -?

Luther freeze-frames, zooms in. The DRIVER wears a BASEBALL CAP 
and GLASSES. As the car passes in SPECTRAL FRAME-BY-FRAME, we 
see a GHOSTLY IMAGE of MONICA POOLE in the back seat.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                Is that her?

                                  LUTHER
                We think so, yeah. We think that s 
                her. 

                                  TELLER
                Tell me you got that number plate. 

Luther zooms in still further. The number plate RESOLVES - 
until we see it clearly: TL7574.

                                  LUTHER
                Number plate. Driver s name, home 
                address, phone number. Right now we re 
                  triangulating his mobile phone signal -

At that, Ripley enters, excited and flushed.

                                  RIPLEY
                We ve got him! Locked on!

They share the euphoria of the moment - the scent of blood. 

                                  TELLER
                So? Go go go!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 21.


Ripley exits ata run.


Reed at the wheel. Ripley his passenger.

I/E. GRAHAM S TAXI, LONDON STREET - NIGHT 11 - 22.523636

Graham is cruising the quiet streets. He spots -


Luther paces - drinks coffee - listens to chatter on the radio. 

INTERCUT with the TAXI as it RIDES ON - smooth and sure - to 
QUIETER AND QUIETER STREETS - 

Silence and darkness.


Graham at the wheel. Quite calm. Claire in the back.

22.56

Claire is still in the back of Graham s cab. She frowns - turns 
in her chair - faces front.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 24.


                                  CLAIRE
                Excuse me - excuse me - I think you 
                missed a turn - that was my street, 
                back there - LaceyRoad? Excuse me?

Graham s eyes in the rear-view mirror. Blank. 

                                  CLAIRE (cont d)
                Excuse me - excuse me - 

  OMITTED42A42A


Dennis looks at Linda as she traces a knot of worry between his 
eyes.

                                  LINDA
                What s wrong?

                                  DENNIS
                You said he was impotent. 

                                  LINDA
                He is. He was. It s - I don t know. 
                It s come back. The last few weeks, 
                it s come back. I hate it. 

Dennis turns over, faces the ceiling.

                                  LINDA (cont d)
                Do we have to talk about this? When 
                I m here, can t I just be here?

Beat.

                                  DENNIS
                He knows, doesn t he. About me and 
                you. He absolutely knows.

Out on her WORRIED EYES -


Zoe and Mark are eating breakfast. He s watching her. 

                                  MARK
                You okay?

                                  ZOE
                Me? Yeah, I m good. Great! Why?

                                  MARK
                You seem - I don t know. You sure 
                you re okay?

                                  ZOE
                I m sure I m okay.

Yearning in his eyes. Something being left unsaid. Then - with 
effort - his expression changes. His eyes sparkle.

                                  MARK
                      (sings)
                 Search your heart...search your soul
                And when you find me there you'll 
                search no more... 

                                  ZOE
                Stop!

                                  MARK
                 Don't tell me it's not worth tryin'
                for...You can't tell me it's not worth 
                  dyin'for...You know it's true... 

                                  ZOE
                      (throws toast)
                Stop!

                                  MARK
                      (with feigned passion)
                   Everything I do - I do it for you .

                                  ZOE
                You re an arsehole!I hate that song.

                                  MARK
                You know you love it.

A good moment. Mark butters his toast. Zoe looks at him with 
love in her eyes.


Teller enters, shuts the door. Luther can see it in her 
expression. Another victim.

                                  LUTHER
                No.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 26.


She nods. Luther kicks his chair. It slams into the wall. A 
beat of silence. Then he sits in the chair, head in hands.


Luther and Teller look at the screens showing TREVOR ROWAN in 
the interview room, with Reed. 

                                  LUTHER
                His alibi holds. He was in Eccleston
                Place, SW1.Passenger and credit card 
                details prove it. He s not our man -

                                  TELLER
                So there are two taxis with the same 
                  number-plate on the same night in 
                london?

                                  LUTHER
                He cloned the plate. It s easy. All 
                he s got to do, is make note of real 
                taxi number plates- then import 
                 spares  from Ireland. He could have 
                half a dozen different numbers -

                                  TELLER
                Or fifty. Or a hundred. So what dowe 
                have? 

Luther invokes the CCTV of the Taxi on BroughtonRow, mid-U-
turn.

                                  LUTHER
                This.

                                  TELLER
                This what?

                                  LUTHER
                He tries to take this turning, at the 
                end of BroughtonRow...messes 
                up...does a U-turn. That seemed odd, 
                so we checked. BroughtonRow used to 
                be a through-way. But they blocked it 
                off when the hookers moved in. Made it 
                a rat-run. 

                                  TELLER
                When was this?

                                  LUTHER
                March 2002.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 27.


                                  TELLER
                The implication being?

                                  LUTHER
                I don t think he s a taxi driver. I 
                think he used to be. Or tried to be. 

A knock on the door. Ripley enters.

                                  RIPLEY
                Not only is there no law against 
                selling second-hand taxis, it s easy 
                and cheap.

                                  LUTHER
                How many people are driving round 
                London in one of these things?

                                  RIPLEY
                Other than Prince Phillip, Kate Moss 
                and Stephen Fry? There s no way to 
                tell. There s no database. But it runs 
                into the high hundreds, low thousands, 
                easy. More than you want to think 
                about, let alone track down.

Luther, Teller and Ripley look at the CCTV footage. All those 
taxis.

                                  TELLER
                He could have a different licence 
                plate for every night of the month. 
                He s completely anonymous - one taxi 
                among twenty thousand others - and 
                trusted by default. He might as well 
                be invisible. 

                                  LUTHER
                And he s in a feeding frenzy. There ll
                be another victim tonight. And more 
                tomorrow - and tomorrow - and 
                tomorrow. 

Out on their fear - watching the footage of the taxis. 


Graham is CHANGING THE NUMBER PLATES on his taxi. 


Alice emerges from the LADIES BATHROOM - she s wearing 
spectacles, a WHITE LAB COAT - and a SINGLE COLOUREDCONTACT 
LENSE- brown.

She pops a  CLEANING IN PROGRESS  SIGN OUTSIDE THE DOOR.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 28.


We see a CURLING WISP OF GREY SMOKE emerge from under the door. 
Alice walks away, looking occupied - and doctor-like. 


As a NURSE opens the bathroom door, a BELLOW OF SMOKE comes 
out. We glimpse a sudden flicker of flame inside. The nurse 
reels back, shutting the door, and hits the fire alarm in the 
corridor.


Luther, Reed, Teller. An air of weariness - three people who ve
been up all night, to meet only failure. 

                                  TELLER
                We warn people not to catch taxis, it 
                causes chaos and achieves nothing - 

                                  REED
                Except create twenty-thousand suspects 
                in the public s mind - and send our 
                man to ground.

                                  LUTHER
                Besides - wave a wand, wipe all the 
                black cabs from the face of London - 
                  there llstill be young women needing 
                to get home at night. All he does is 
                modify his M.O.

                                  TELLER
                You think he ll be hunting again 
                tonight?

                                  LUTHER
                He can t stop.

                                  TELLER
                Then we have to take him today.

Her phone rings. She answers. 

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                Teller -

Her face falls. Silence in the room until she hangs up - and 
looks at Luther with a mixture of curiosity and dread.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                    ChartwellHospital s on fire.


THE ALARM SHRIEKS a continuous, shrill note. MEMBERS OF THE 
PUBLIC and NON ESSENTIAL PERSONNEL are evacuating -

But Alice, in her lab coat, moves against the flow -         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 29.


                                  ALICE
                Excuse me. Excuse me. Sorry. Sorry, do 
                excuse me - 

She pushes along until she gets to the POLICE GUARD outside 
Madsen s room. Made nervous by the alarm, he s nevertheless 
maintaining his position. Alice approaches. Chill, commanding.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                Officer -

                                  PC FULFORD
                Fulford- 

He squints. Focuses on her DIFFERENT COLOURED EYES. 

                                  ALICE
                We re having some trouble with a few 
                members of the public on ward 28. They 
                won t leave the building. Response is 
                on the way but - since you re here. 

                                  PC FULFORD
                I m not supposed to - 

                                  ALICE
                I wouldn t ask if it wasn t an 
                emergency. I ll stay with the patient.

  Fulfordhesitates. Then wilts under her cool authority - 

                                  PC FULFORD
                Ward 28?

                                  ALICE
                Next floor down. 

He hesitates - she encourages him with a little nod. He hurries 
away - leaving Alice to slip into Madsen s room.

SCENE 53 OMITTED5353


- and shut the door. She looks left. Then right. Then at 
Madsen.

He s lying there. Eyes open. Watching her. He starts to speak, 
trying to form the word. 

                                  ALICE
                Hello, Henry. 

She reaches out. Touches his dry lips - almost caresses them. 
His eyes widen in fear. He tries to speak. To say it.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                Shhh.Don t say his name. Don t.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 30.


The caressing hand suddenly pinches Madsen s nostrils. Alice 
puts her other hand over his mouth - presses down -

He struggles in his terror - but he s etiolated, weak - 
helpless as a kitten - 

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                Shhhh. Shhhh. Shhhh. 

ANGLE ON ALICE as she smothers the life from him - watches the 
life extinguished in his eyes - the only sound the shrieking 
fire alarm - 


Luther walks to Ripley s desk. 

ANGLE ON RIPLEY S COMPUTER: we see - 

                                  RIPLEY
                Cabbies who vebeen sacked, invalided 
                off, retired. Plus a list of drivers 
                  who vetried and failed the Knowledge 
                over the last twenty years, triaged, 
                then cross-referenced against the 
                suspect pool. 

He sits, makes a rapid entry on the laptop keyboard. FACES 
begin to disappear - one by one - until only TWENTY-THREE 
remain. 

Graham is one of them - his old Driver s Licence. We barely 
recognise him - he s one face among many, the picture taken 
years ago - he s got a beard. Heavier glasses. But it s him.

                                    RIPLEY(cont d)
                  Twenty-three hits.

                                  LUTHER
                Best? 

He notices Schenk stepping onto the unit, ambling up to him. 

                                  SCHENK
                Sergeant Ripley, I wonder if you 
                wouldn t mind me borrowing the 
                Detective Chief Inspector for a 
                moment?

                                  RIPLEY
                Um- not at all, Sir.

Schenk takes Luther s elbow, walks him to his office. Like 
confidantes, best friends.

                                  SCHENK
                Stressful day.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 31.


                                  LUTHER
                Five victims dead. Maybe twelve hours 
                until the next - so please don t think 
                I m being rude, Martin - 

                                  SCHENK
                Henry Madsen passed away.

                                  LUTHER
                - I m sorry?

                                  SCHENK
                It could be fluke, unconnected to the 
                fire. He shows early signs of 
                recovery, comes off the ventilator, it 
                goes wrong. It happens. Who can tell?

                                  LUTHER
                But?

                                  SCHENK
                But the fire was arson. And these two 
                events, co-occurring -

                                  LUTHER
                Madsen had a permanent guard. 

                                  SCHENK
                Who was directed away from his post by 
                some doctor.  

                                  LUTHER
                What doctor?

                                  SCHENK
                Well, quite. Who can tell? She was 
                young, very pretty. Dark-haired. And 
                  herterochromatic. 

                                  LUTHER
                I m sorry?

                                  SCHENK
                Different coloured eyes. Like David 
                Bowie. But no doctor with 
                  heterochromia of the eye is currently 
                employed by the Chartwell hospital. 

                                  LUTHER
                So, some doctor lost a contact lens. 

                                  SCHENK
                Ah, yes. Probably. But if not - if 
                this was somebody posing as a doctor, 
                someone who knew how to misdirect 
                potential eyewitnesses, someone who 
                wanted access to Henry Madsen - do you 
                have any notion who this might be?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 32.


                Something buried in the Madsen case 
                file, perhaps?

                                  LUTHER
                Well, I could rattle off a hundred 
                people who might want him dead. I d 
                start with the parents of the victims.

                                  SCHENK
                Yes, yes of course. But the timing. It 
                chafes at my brain. Why now? Why today 
                - the very day he wakes up?

                                  LUTHER
                I don t know, Martin. It s a mystery.

Schenk holds his gaze - then looks round at all the mess, the 
detritus, the CCTV - 

                                  SCHENK
                You re busy. I should leave you be. 

                                  LUTHER
                Look, you want to talk this through, 
                I m here. But maybe not today, eh?

                                  SCHENK
                Not today, no. Quite.

A beat, and Schenk exits. Luther sinks into his chair. His 
phone rings. UNKNOWN NUMBER.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah? Hello?


Schenk guides Teller by the elbow into her office, shuts the 
door.

                                  TELLER
                What can I do for you, Martin? Busy 
                day, here.

                                  SCHENK
                I see that. I ll be gone in a few 
                moments. I just - given what I ve just 
                seen - I d like John Luther s phone 
                and emailrecords, please. I m 
                terribly sorry.

                                  TELLER
                I know what you re thinking. But he 
                was here. I kept him here. He hasn t 
                left the building. 

                                  SCHENK
                And yet, I d prefer to check. Just to 
                put my mind at ease. 


Luther stands there - frustrated beyond endurance - a timid 
knock at the door. Ripley.

                                  RIPLEY
                You - um- you okay in here?

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. Sorry. That was my wife. Ex 
                wife, whatever. Sorry. Long night. 
                Come in. 

Ripley enters - shuts the door - hands Luther a file.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 35.


                                  RIPLEY
                Those suspects. Have you eaten?
                      (Luther gives him a look)
                Seriously. You need to eat. 

                                  LUTHER
                Show me the suspect list - 

Ripley sits at the computer, invokes an image of -

                                  RIPLEY 
                Best hit, Graham Shand, 47. Drinking 
                in the same pub as Victim 1. Failed 
                the Knowledge three times, last time 
                in 2002. Until six weeks ago, he 
                worked nights at a Taxi breakdown and 
                recovery garage - 

                                  LUTHER
                What happened?

                                  RIPLEY
                Formerly decent employee. Seems to 
                have undergone some kind of breakdown. 
                  Drinking...  sexually inappropriate  
                conduct...

                                  LUTHER
                What does that mean, exactly?

                                  RIPLEY
                We re following that up now. 

                                  LUTHER
                How long did he work there, the 
                garage?

                                  RIPLEY
                Six years. Until lately his behaviour 
                was - within the bounds of normality.

Teller enters. Shuts the door. Crosses her arms. Listens.

                                  LUTHER
                Any hard evidence?

                                  RIPLEY
                There s no record of him, his wife, 
                known friends or family ever buying a 
                  second-hand taxi. No registered lock-
                ups, no garages. No nothing.

                                  LUTHER
                But plenty of opportunity to buy one 
                cash, under the table. Form?

                                  RIPLEY
                None. You want to bring him in?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 36.


                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. We know where he is?

                                  RIPLEY
                No. 

                                  LUTHER
                He s nocturnal, used to working 
                nights. Could be he s at home, asleep.

                                  TELLER
                I ll get DCI Reed to the house with a 
                warrant - 

                                  RIPLEY
                And if he s not there?

                                  LUTHER
                We target his weak spot.

                                  RIPLEY
                What s that?

                                  TELLER
                      (looking at Luther.)
                The wife. Always the wife.

                                  LUTHER
                Look her up. Bring her in.

Uneasy beat. 

                                  TELLER
                Sergeant, if I could have a moment 
                with the Detective Chief Inspector?

                                  RIPLEY
                Of course, Ma am.

Ripley exits, rolling his eyes. 

Teller looks at the picture of Graham.

                                  TELLER
                This definitely our man?

                                  LUTHER
                Good candidate.

                                  TELLER
                Nice work. So what s happening between 
                you and Zoe?

He stares at her. 

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                That was her on the phone just now, 
                right?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 37.


                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. That was Zoe.

                                  TELLER
                Ah! All the shouting, the screaming. 
                It s yesterday once more. So are you 
                and she - ?

                                  LUTHER
                Yes. No. I don t know. Possibly. Who 
                knows?
                      (off her expression)
                Well, it s nice to see you happy for 
                me.

                                  TELLER
                You want to know the real tragedy of 
                marriage? 

                                  LUTHER
                No.

                                  TELLER
                Women hope men will change, but they 
                don t. Men hope women won t change. 
                But they do.

She walks to the door.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                I need you to stay in this building 
                until you re cleared to leave. 

                                  LUTHER
                I m trying to run an investigation, 
                here.

                                  TELLER
                And like you say; this is the best 
                place to run it from. So just do that.

SCENE 60 OMITTED6060


Reed in the lounge, on the phone as UNIFORMS finish their 
search.  He spots a wad of money partially hidden on the side. 
When no one is looking, he pockets it.

                                  REED
                No-one s home.


Linda is polishing the floor with a buffer. Ripley steps into 
the open doorway.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 38.


                                  LINDA
                Hello?

                                  RIPLEY
                Linda Shand?

                                  LINDA
                Yeah?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (badges her)
                MrsShand, I m Detective Sergeant 
                Ripley -

                                  LINDA
                      (kills the vacuum)
                Who, sorry?

                                  RIPLEY
                Detective Sergeant Ripley. Out of the 
                Serious Crime Unit, HobbLane.

                                  LINDA
                Police? Seriously? What s wrong? Is 
                Graham okay?

                                  RIPLEY
                It s nothing like that. But I wonder 
                if you wouldn t mind coming with me, 
                help clear up a few things.

                                  LINDA
                What sort of thing?

                                  RIPLEY
                I m sure there s nothing for you to 
                worry about.

                                  LINDA
                What is it?

                                  RIPLEY
                It s just, your name popped up on a 
                database -

                                  LINDA
                What database? How?

                                  RIPLEY
                Probably it s nothing. We just need to 
                ask you some questions. 

                                  LINDA
                About what?

                                  RIPLEY
                Graham, mostly.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 39.


                                  LINDA
                Oh, God. What s he done? Has he done 
                something?

                                  RIPLEY
                If you d like to come with me -

                                  LINDA
                I feel sick. Can I -

She nods at the bathroom right next to Ripley. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Of course.

She enters. Shuts the door.


Linda enters. Runs the tap. Sickened. Furious. She nearly 
throws up. Then she dials her phone.


On the phone, Luther winces. 

                                  LUTHER
                We re not going to find Graham Shand
                without her help. So bring her in. 
                Drag her if you have to. I don t care.

Luther hangs up. He then dials Zoe s number. No answer.


Luther leads Linda to the waiting room. She s very anxious. 
She s never stepped foot in a police station before.

                                  LINDA
                So -

She looks at him. Blank with anxiety. 

                                  LUTHER
                Can I get you a tea? A coffee?

                                  LINDA
                Some water, maybe?

He sets down the case file on a chair. Goes to the water 
cooler, draws her a cup, passes it to her. She sips. Nervous.

                                  LUTHER
                How have things been, lately - between 
                you and Graham?

                                  LINDA
                Fine. Why?

                                  LUTHER
                Do you know where he was on Friday 
                night?

                                  LINDA
                At the pub. With me and some friends. 
                It was my birthday. 

                                  LUTHER
                He was with you all night?

                                  LINDA
                Not all night, no. He went to work.

                                  LUTHER
                Where?

                                  LINDA
                At the garage. He works at an all 
                night recovery garage. Taxis, mostly.

                                  LUTHER
                The thing is - Graham hasn t worked 
                there for two months now.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 43.


                                  LINDA
                      (after a beat)
                What?

                                  LUTHER
                You didn t know?

                                  LINDA
                No.

Luther rests his eyes on her. Not accusing; gentle, forgiving, 
  compassionate.

Ripley pokes his head round the door.

                                  RIPLEY
                Boss? I m sorry to interrupt - it s a 
                bit urgent - 

                                  LUTHER
                      (to Linda)
                I m sorry, I have to dash. I ll be 
                back soon. We ll talk properly.

                                  LINDA
                What about, exactly?

                                  LUTHER
                Soon as I can. Promise. Excuse me.

He exits at speed. And we follow Linda's gaze - as she looks 
round the room - until finally her eyes settle - on the CASE 
FILE Luther left behind in his haste. 

She glances at the door - back at the file. To the door. 

To the file - 


Luther exits the waiting room.

                                  RIPLEY
                I time that okay?

                                  LUTHER
                Perfect.

They approach Teller.

                                  TELLER
                How is she?

                                  LUTHER
                She knows something s not right.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 44.


                                  TELLER
                She s going to know a lot more than 
                that in a few minutes.

                                  LUTHER
                Look, we confront her - she becomes 
                defensive, guilt-ridden, she clams up 
                and we get nothing. She thinks she s 
                discovered the truth for herself, 
                she ll be more accessible a subject.

                                  TELLER
                You don t think this approach is a bit 
                  - merciless?

                                  LUTHER
                Because of her, Graham knows we re on 
                him. He ll try to kill as many as he 
                can before we catch him. If I have to 
                terrify his wife to stop that 
                happening, I can live with it.

                                  TELLER
                If it doesn t work?

                                  LUTHER
                We pick up the pieces of her and start 
                again.

                                  TELLER
                Thus speaks John Luther, gentleman of 
                this parish.

                                  LUTHER
                She knows what her husband is.

                                  TELLER
                But maybe not what he s done. There is 
                  a difference.

SCENE 71 OMITTED7171


Linda stares at the CASE FILE. Stands. Goes to the water 
cooler. Gets herself another drink. Pointedly ignores the file. 
Sips the water. Looks at the file. Looks away.

A peek couldn t hurt. Just a peek. She lifts the manilla cover 
with the edge of an index finger. Just a touch. Then a little 
more. Then all the way. 

Gets her first glimpse of a CRIME SCENE PHOTOGRAPH - 

                                  LINDA
                Oh God.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 45.


Steps back, as if it s burned her. But can t resist its lure. 
She opens the folder again - 


Luther is pacing, nervous, waiting. We don t know for what - 
not yet. Not until he hears a CRY OF DESPAIR from the waiting 
room -

He darts towards it - 


- and enters. To see CRIME SCENE PHOTOS SCATTERED EVERYWHERE -
and Linda curled up, wracked by TERRIBLE DISTRESS- 

- clutching a PHOTOGRAPH OF MONICA POOLE - in which she WEARS 
THE MOON PENDANT NECKLACE

                                  LUTHER
                Mrs. Shand? Linda?

                                  LINDA
                What s this?

Shows him the necklace she s ripped from her neck

                                  LINDA (cont d)
                WHAT S THIS?! What is it? What is it? 
                What is it?

Luther steps forward - takes her in his arms - 

                                  LINDA (cont d)
                Oh God, oh God, oh God, oh God. What 
                did he do? What did he do?


Zoe enters. Mark is sitting at the kitchen table. He s a good 
way through a bottle of wine.

She sits. Tentative, nervous.

                                  ZOE
                Is there a glass for me?

                                  MARK
                Course. 

As he pours her a glass, his eyes don t leave hers.

                                  ZOE
                I - okay. Right. I have something I 
                need to say. To, um, tell you. 

Looking into his eyes. Seeing what s reflected there.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 46.


                                    ZOE(cont d)
                You already know.

                                  MARK
                Pretty much.

                                  ZOE
                How?

                                  MARK
                It doesn t take a intuitive genius.

                                  ZOE
                Why didn t you say anything?

                                  MARK
                It s not my business. 

                                  ZOE
                      (emotional)
                Of course it s your business. Don t 
                say that. Please. It s absolutely your 
                business.

She touches his hand, expecting him to withdraw. He doesn t. He 
holds her hand. 

                                  MARK
                For what it s worth - do you know what 
                I think you need to do?

                                  ZOE
                Mark - 

                                  MARK
                Seriously. I d make a list of the 
                reasons you married him. Then make a 
                list of the reasons you left him. See 
                how much those two lists overlap. 

She laughs, still crying, knowing he s right. Sips wine. 

                                  ZOE
                I m so sorry. He s not what I want. 
                He s just not. 

                                  MARK
                What do you want?

                                  ZOE
                This. Here. Right now. With you.


Luther and Linda. Just them. Luther is muted, forgiving.

                                  LUTHER
                How long have you been married?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 47.


                                  LINDA
                Twenty years. 

                                  LUTHER
                And how would you characterise him - 
                as a husband?

Incredulous beat. What does he want her to say?

                                  LINDA
                He s manipulative, controlling, 
                passive aggressive, resentful, 
                selfish, childish - 

                                  LUTHER
                That s a lot of anger you ve got 
                stored up, there.

                                  LINDA
                He said if I ever left him, he d kill 
                himself. I tried once. I packed my 
                bags and bought a ticket to Cardiff. 
                Cardiff! He slashed his wrists in the 
                bath and called me before he called 
                the ambulance. He didn t even do it 
                properly, just sliced himself across 
                the wrists. Lots of blood, lots of 
                drama. But no real risk to Graham. 
                Story of his life. I d kill for a 
                cigarette.

                                  LUTHER
                Not in here, I m afraid.

                                  LINDA
                Those girls - 

Touches her throat, where the necklace had been. Makes a 
disgusted face. Wants to wash her hands.

                                  LUTHER
                Linda, I need to ask you some 
                difficult questions, some very 
                personal question. It s not my 
                intention to embarrass you -

                                  LINDA
                Is it about the handbags?

Actually, no. He d been about to ask about Graham s use of 
pornography. But he controls his excitement. Keeps it low and 
level. All about Linda.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah, tell me about the handbags.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 48.


                                  LINDA
                He s always had this thing, a weird 
                thing for them. Early on - we d been 
                married a year, eighteen months - he 
                used to nick them. I found them all 
                hidden in the garage, confronted him 
                about it. He cried, made up some 
                story. 

                                  LUTHER
                You reported him?

                                  LINDA
                No!

                                  LUTHER
                Why not?

                                  LINDA
                He s my husband.

                                  LUTHER
                You believed his story?

                                  LINDA
                I was young and stupid - but not that 
                young and not that stupid.

                                  LUTHER
                What did you think he was - y know, 
                doing with the bags?

                                  LINDA
                What do you think?

                                  LUTHER
                I don t know.

                                  LINDA
                He liked to sniff them and touch 
                himself. All right?

                                  LUTHER
                But you stayed with him.

                                  LINDA
                I was embarrassed. And a bit of me was 
                scared it was me - that I was doing 
                something wrong and somehow, y know, 
                people would find out about it and 
                laugh. And of course he cried and 
                begged and said he d kill himself if I 
                left, that didn t help. 

                                  LUTHER
                Okay. I know this is all moving very 
                fast - but Graham s a suspect in a 
                very serious crime -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 49.


  Furious look. She knows that.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                These urges, he controlled them for a 
                long time. Then suddenly - this. Do 
                you have any idea what it was, this 
                thing that pushed him over the edge?

                                  LINDA
                It s not my fault.

                                  LUTHER
                What s not your fault?

She can t answer aloud. Too ashamed. Too fearful. She looks at 
her lap.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Linda?

                                  LINDA
                I forgot to erase a text message. He 
                checks my call log when I m in the 
                shower. Goes through my handbag. 

                                  LUTHER
                Your call log? He found out you were 
                sleeping with someone?

And suddenly, Luther stands. All urgency. Looms over her. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Who is he?

                                  LINDA
                It s not my fault!

                                  LUTHER
                WHO IS HE, LINDA? WHO IS HE?


Luther charges out of the interview room, addresses the 
Bullpen.

                                  LUTHER
                Dennis Keaton, 23 Black Swan Way. 
                Justin, call him, tell him to make 
                himself safe until the police arrive. 

Ripley lifts the phone. And Teller, hearing the commotion, 
emerges from her office. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Graham s punishing Linda for being 
                unfaithful - working his way up to 
                killing her.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 50.


                He can t do that now, he knows we ve 
                got her. So he s going for the next 
                best thing - 

INT/EXT - REED S CAR - NIGHT 12 - 19.1874C74C

Reed speeds through the night.


Dennis is watching TV, drinking a beer. The DOORBELL RINGS. 

He puts downthe beer, goes to the door. Opens it -

And there s Graham.

                                  DENNIS
                Gray -?

GRAHAM STABS HIMWITH A SCREWDRIVER -

Dennis collapses - Graham drags him inside - kicks the door 
shut. 

Inside, the PHONE RINGS.

SCENES 77 - 81 OMITTED7777


It s now empty, but for Luther, Ripley and Teller. 

Luther paces, listens as A PHONE RINGS AND RINGS. Teller s on 
the phone, too. Ripley s working the computer. 

                                  LUTHER
                No answer on the mobile.

                                  TELLER
                Nor the landline.

                                  LUTHER
                Last call made?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (checks records on computer)
                Escort agency. City Chic Escorts. 

                                  LUTHER
                He ever do that before?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (enters a command)
                Not according to this, no.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 51.


                                  LUTHER
                All right. Then Dennis Keaton s
                already dead. Graham s changed 
                tactics. He s going to sit in Keaton s
                house, ordering up girls like pizza. 
                Get me that escort s name and number! 


Bored, LAYLA - not her real name - takes a mirror compact from 
her handbag. Touches up her lipstick. The cab pulls over. She 
reaches for her purse. 

Her phone rings. UNKNOWN NUMBER. Fumbling for her money, she 
ignores it.


Luther pacing, on the phone.

                                  LUTHER
                Come on. Answer. Answer.

It goes to voicemail.He dials again. 


                                  RIPLEY
                 Layla  just textedsafe arrival, 23 
                Black Swan Way.

                                  LUTHER
                Get me Reed on the speaker.

Ripley runs to the desk phone, dials Reed s number.


Luther has the RINGING MOBILEto his ear. At the same time, 
he s addressing the SPEAKERPHONE.

                                  LUTHER
                Still no answer. She s there already. 
                She s with him. 


Reed at the wheel, on the hands-free, driving at speed.

                                  REED
                I m almost there. Two, three minutes 
                max - 


Luther on the phone. Still with Teller and Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                We can t just kick our way in. He ll 
                kill her. 

                                  REED (O.S.)
                      (on speakerphone)
                So what do you suggest? 

Luther turns to Teller.

                                  LUTHER
                I need to be there.

                                  TELLER
                No.

                                  LUTHER
                I NEED TO BE THERE.

                                  TELLER
                No.

Luther struggles for a moment. Turns to Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                How fast can you get there?

                                  RIPLEY
                Pretty fast.

                                  LUTHER
                Good. 

A good moment. Ripley s respect absolutely restored.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 53.


                                  RIPLEY
                Just tell me what to do. It s done.


Layla steps inside. Her phone rings off.

                                  GRAHAM
                So. Do we ? 
                      (nods towards the stairs)

                                  LAYLA
                  Absolutely. You re the boss. But first- 
                      (smiles)

                                  GRAHAM
                Oh, right! Of course! 
                      (takescash from his pocket)
                Two twenty-five?

Horrified, Graham notices a SMALL BLOOD SPOT on the carpet. As 
Layla briskly counts the cash, he covers it with his foot.

                                  LAYLA
                You re very kind. So, would you like 
                to show me where -

Her phone rings again. They make faces at one another. Typical.

                                  GRAHAM
                Upstairs. If that s okay?

                                  LAYLA
                That s absolutely fine.

She takes the lead. Graham walks up the stairs behind her -  
casting a WARY GLANCEat the blood stain.


Layla reaches the landing. Her phone rings. She rolls her eyes. 
Reaches for the phone.

Graham hesitates. Still on the stairs - looking up at her. 
Blocking her exit.

                                  LAYLA
                Dennis, I m sorry - it s my 
                  girlfriend. She likes to check up on 
                me during dates, make sure I arrive 
                safely. Do you mind?

                                  GRAHAM
                Of course not. Go ahead.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 54.


                                  LAYLA
                      (smiles for him as she 
                        answers)
                Hello, darling -


And waits. Graham enters. Breathing heavily.

I/E - RIPLEY S CAR (TRAVELLING) - NIGHT 12 - 20.339191

Ripley drives like a man with the devil at his back.


Graham steps forward. Touches Layla s face. Her shoulder. Her 
arm. Her bag.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 55.


                                  GRAHAM
                Can I take the bag?

                                  LAYLA
                      (reading the relevance)
                Of course.

She hands him the bag. He takes it. Sets it down on the bed.

Turns to look at her. And they both know.

                                    LAYLA(cont d)
                Do you mind if I - ?

                                  GRAHAM
                What?

                                  LAYLA
                The bathroom. 

                                  GRAHAM
                I d rather you didn t, no.

A long beat - agonising 

- and Layla MAKES A BREAK FOR IT - 

Graham lunges - but she s through the door - he grabs a HAMMER 
from UNDER THE BED - pursues her - 


- onto the landing - he s a beat behind her - he kicks out - 
she falls - he grabs at her ankle -

- she crawls through the NEAREST DOOR-


- into the bathroom - slams the door - fumbles to lock it - a 
 turn and release  lock - 


Graham grabs the handle 

IN THE BATHROOM 

Layla holds the door with all her might - puts her weight 
against it - just manages to stop Graham opening it - she s 
screaming - as she engages the lock -

ON THE LANDING 

Graham hears the LOCK SLIDE SHUT. 

IN THE BATHROOM         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 56.


Layla holds the handle of the lock. Tries to think. Think! 
Think! 

She turns, fumbling for her phone - sees DENNISKEATON - dead 
in the bath! She screams again -

ON THE LANDING

Graham examines the lock. Like most bathroom locks, it can be 
undone from this side. He searches in his pocket, takes out a 
FIFTY PENCE PIECE - begins turning the mechanism - forcing it -

                                  GRAHAM
                Let me in. I want to kiss you! I only 
                want to kiss you! 

IN THE BATHROOM 

Layla can t hold it any more - it s difficult - her fingers are 
slippy - and Graham has all the leverage - 

                                  LAYLA
                      (on phone)
                I can t keep him out! Hurry! Please!

The lock is forced to the OPEN position - 

- quickly, Layla snaps it shut again -


                                  LUTHER
                      (on phone)
                We re coming! We ll right there! We ll 
                be right there! Hold on!


Graham SHOULDER-BARGES THE DOOR. He s weeping with rage and 
frustration.

                                  GRAHAM
                LET ME KISS YOU!


The door shudders in its frame.

                                  LAYLA
                      (on phone)
                Please! Please!

And again the door shudders - and the frame SPLINTERS round the 
lock -

                                    LAYLA(cont d)
                Please!!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 57.



Still on the phone, Luther indicates he needs to use Teller s 
phone. They swap. 

                                  TELLER (on phone)
                Layla, my name s Rose. We re nearly 
                there. We re very close. Hang on.

Luther dials Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                Justin?


Ripley s car pulls up. 

                                  RIPLEY
                      (on phone)
                I m there.

Reaching for the door, he glances in the rear-view mirror. And 
we see - in the back seat is LINDA! 


Layla braces herself against the door - as Graham barges it 
again - and again - and again -  

                                  GRAHAM (O.S.)
                      (weeping)
                JUST ONE KISS! LET ME TOUCH YOU!

She s past screaming now. Teeth gritted. Nostrils flared. 
Determined to survive.


Graham barges the door one more time - then braces himself 
against the wall - KICKS the door - 

                                  GRAHAM
                DO YOU KNOW WHAT I M GOING TO DO, EH? 
                DO YOU KNOW WHAT S HAPPENING? 

The lock gives a little more! He kicks again! And again! 

                                    GRAHAM(cont d)
                DO YOU KNOW WHAT S COMING TO YOU? 

And the DOOR FLIES OPEN - LAYLA SCUTTLES BACK, TO THE FAR 
CORNER -         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 58.


Graham takes the hammer. Advances. 

                                    GRAHAM(cont d)
                Do you know what s coming?

Then - he HEARS SOMETHING. A WEIRDLY DOMESTIC NOISE. So normal, 
it takes him a moment to work out what it might be. 

It s - a key in the lock. The door opening.

                                  LINDA (O.S.)
                Graham?

He can t believe it. 

                                  LINDA (O.S.)(cont d)
                Graham - are you here?

He turns away from Layla - walks downstairs - hammer in hand.

And there she is. Linda. In the hallway. Coat on. Keys in hand. 
Not speaking.

He faces her. An animal. And a petulant child. Revelling in 
what he is. 

                                  LINDA  (cont d)
                Look at you. You sad little prick. 

He stands there, hammer in hand - grinning. 

                                  GRAHAM
                See?

A long moment. His grin widens. Utter malevolent satisfaction.

Reed enters through the open door. Calm as you like.

                                  REED
                Put the hammer down, Graham. You re 
                all done.


Graham meets Reed s eyes. Then glances back, over his shoulder. 

Ripley is there too - stealing quietly up behind him - having 
entered the house through the back door.

Ripley stops. Holds his ground.

So Graham is trapped. Hammer in hand.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 59.


Linda is shivering. Numbed with inexpressible loathing.

                                  REED
                Graham. Just put it down. I m tired 
                and I want to go home.

Long beat. Then Graham makes a SUDDEN MOVE - 

And laughs. Only joking. 

He chucks the hammer at Linda s feet. An act of utter contempt.

Then Reed and Ripley rush him - throw him to the floor. Cuff 
him. He struggles.

In a daze, Linda looks all around. Hardly able to believe it -

As Ripley and Reed haul Graham to his feet -

                                  RIPLEY 
                Graham Shand, I am arresting you -

She walks upstairs. Like a zombie.


She reaches the landing. Sees the mess. Hears the sobbing from 
inside the bathroom. She steps forward. Hesitates. 

Nudges open the door with her shoe.

Her POV: Layla flinches, weeping in the corner. Behind her is 
Dennis. Dead in the bath.

Linda takes it in. The absolute horror. 

                                  LINDA
                Excuse me. I m sorry. Sorry.

In the calm of terrible shock, she turns. Walks downstairs. 


Her eyes flick to the HAMMER. Dropped and forgotten for the 
moment. 


And Luther, on the phone, hears the news - collapses in on 
himself - under Teller s WITHERING GAZE - 

                                                              LONG SLOW FADE TO:


Luther lets himself in. Unspeakably weary. 

He sits on the bed. A long moment. Then he dials.

                                  LUTHER
                Zo? I know it s late. It s just, I ve 
                called you a hundred times. I know 
                it s difficult, but call me back when 
                you can. Just let me know everything s 
                okay. Just let me hear your voice.

He hangs up. Sits there. Stares at the wall. 


Zoe and Mark are in bed. Making spoons. Her mobile phone is 
TURNED OFF on the bedside table. 

Mark kisses the back of her neck. They snuggle.

                                                                              FADE TO:


Alice at her desk. Footsteps. She looks up to see - Zoe Luther!  

Alice stands. Zoe enters. Shuts the door. Stares, fearless, 
into Alice s cold eyes. 

                                  ALICE
                Can I help?

                                  ZOE
                Yes. Stop.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 61.


                                  ALICE
                I see. So you ve spoken to Mark. 

Zoe smiles. Then SLAPS ALICE ACROSS THE FACE!

A shocked moment. Alice can t believe it. The beginnings of a 
half smile - as Zoe steps closer. Into Alice s space.

                                  ZOE
                You can t hurt me. Do you want to know 
                why? 

                                  ALICE
                Very much.

                                  ZOE
                Because if you did, John would despise 
                you. And whatever you say, whatever 
                lies you tell yourself - you couldn t 
                stand that. Because you re so 
                desperate to make him want you. It s 
                pitiable.

Beat.

                                    ZOE(cont d)
                Stay away.

She exits. Leaving Alice silent. Looking at the closed door.


Martin Schenk wanders down the corridor. Hands in pockets. Deep 
in thought. 

He pauses outside Madsen s room. 

Peers through the window. Then steps inside. 


Stands there. Looks at the empty bed in the empty room.

Sits on the edge of the bed. Staring out the window. 

Thinking. Just thinking.

                                                                    END OF EPISODE