
ALEX O'SHEA (mid 30 s) sits behind the wheel.  He sings 
softly to whatever s on the radio.  He s in a repulsively 
good mood.

KIM GRANT (20 s) sits next to him in the passenger s seat.  
She eyes Alex suspiciously.

                          KIM
              What s with the karaoke?

                            O'SHEA
            What?  A guy can t wake up happy?

                          KIM
              You re being pretty obvious.  You should 
            just get a shirt that says  I got laid  
            to wear on mornings like this.

                            O'SHEA
            They make those?

She smiles in spite of herself.

                            O'SHEA
              You re not allowed to smile either.  
              You re being obvious.

Unable to resist, Kim laughs --           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  2.





Kim s laughing now, and O'Shea smiles at her.

                            O'SHEA
            So what if I m obvious?  You re single, 
            I m single.  We see each other every day.  
            It s only natural.

                          KIM
              I know.  I m fine with it.  I just don t 
            know if Dr. Kiefer would be.  He s...  

Kim suddenly sees Angelique as they race up on her.

                          KIM
                OHMYGODALEXLOOKOUT!!

O'Shea slams on the brakes.  They cry out as O'Shea twists 
the wheel, tries to control the car s skid.  Kim smacks her 
head against the window.


O'Shea and Kim sit there for a long moment, hearts pounding.

                            O'SHEA
            You okay?

                          KIM
              I guess.  A little dizzy, but...            EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  3.




O'Shea looks out the front window.

Angelique still stands there in the middle of the road, 
looking in at them, a couple of feet from the car and shaking 
like a leaf.

                            O'SHEA
            Holy shit.


Several people already waiting.

ISOBEL (15), a sullen girl with eyes red and puffy from 
crying, sits between SAM and MARIE, her simmering parents. 

GRACE (early 30 s) sits by herself, calmly reading a book.

As Doug and Kim push Angelique into the lobby, DR. WESLEY 
KIEFER (50 s), enters as well.  Kiefer s on the heavy side, 
but by no means soft.  Stern, imposing.           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  6.




                            KIEFER
              What s going on?

                          KIM
              Trouble in the parking lot.

                            KIEFER
            Do I even need to ask who it s with?

                          KIM
            Who s your favorite?


Doug and Kim hurry Angelique into this fairly cutting-edge 
exam room.  Spotless.  Enough room to examine a half-dozen 
patients in private comfort.


Doug and Kim get Angelique up onto a table.

                          KIM
            The doctor s going to be in soon, okay?

                            ANGELIQUE
            Just as soon as he s finished talking to 
            my daddy, I suspect.

                          KIM
            Your daddy?

                            ANGELIQUE
            Yeah.  That was his van.


Kim and Doug step back from Angelique, like she s dangerous.  
Like they re afraid to touch her.

                          KIM
              Dwayne Burcell is your father?

                            DOUG
            Oh, fuck no.  Are you kidding?           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  8.





Inside the van, CLOSE on Dwayne as he talks to Kiernan.

                            KIERNAN
              There s obviously been some sort of 
                misunderstanding, Dwayne.

                            DWAYNE
              You re right about that.  Now how  bout 
            you go get her right now?

                            KIERNAN
            Can you give me a minute?

Dwayne checks his watch.

                            DWAYNE
            Yeah.  A minute.  Go.


Dwayne.  Coiled.  Waiting.

                            KIERNAN
              There s some confusion about whether she 
            is or isn t in there right now...           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  9.




                            DWAYNE
              I just watched her go through those front 
              doors.  She s in there.

                            KIERNAN
            ... but before we can sort anything out, 
            you need to back off.  500 yards.  I ll 
            go inside to check on her, but you have 
            to back up.


O'Shea walks in, walks right up to Angelique, past Kim and 
Doug without even a glance.

                            O'SHEA
                  (to Angelique)
              What s your last name?

                          KIM
            Alex, listen...

                            ANGELIQUE
              Burcell.

                            O'SHEA
            Why didn t you mention that?

O'Shea steels himself, puts on a smile for Angelique.

                            O'SHEA
                  (to Angelique)
              Great.  We need to do this quickly.  Can 
            you stand up, please?  And take off your 
              sweater for me.

Kim helps Angelique to her feet, helps unbutton her sweater.

Kim gasps, and everyone looks at Angelique, now dressed only 
in a thin cotton dress --         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  10.




-- and visibly pregnant, at least three months!

Angelique starts to sob again. 

                          KIM
            It s okay.  We re going to help you.

                            ANGELIQUE
              I know you will.  God brought you to me 
            this morning.

                            O'SHEA
              Well... I don t know about that.

                            ANGELIQUE
            I do.  He brought you to me to help me.  
            God wants you to kill my baby.


Sam checks his watch, exasperated.  He looks up at the desk, 
where a nurse, JOAN, sits.

                          SAM
            We had an appointment.  I guess that 
              doesn t mean a goddamn thing.

                            JOAN
            An emergency came up, sir.  We ll get to 
            you as soon as we can.

                          SAM
            It s piss-poor.  That s what it is.

                            GRACE
                  (to Sam)
            We re all waiting, sir.  It s just that 
            some of us manage not to be giant 
              assholes while we do it.

                            ISOBEL
                  (low)
              Daddy, you re embarrassing me.

                          SAM
              I m... embarrassing... you?! Did you hear 
            that, Marie?  That s rich.


Kiefer sits behind his desk.  O'Shea and Kim sit on the other 
side, facing him.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  11.




                            O'SHEA
              I think we need to get her a psych 
              consult before we let her go home.

                            KIEFER
            Why?  Because God spoke to her?  For a 
            lot of Americans, that s a badge of 
              honor, not a cause for concern.

                            O'SHEA
            Yeah, well, a lot of Americans believe in 
            alien abduction, too.

                            KIEFER
            Have you done a full exam yet?

                            O'SHEA
            No.  I m not touching Dwayne Burcell s 
              daughter.  He would kill me.  He would 
              follow me to my home or to a restaurant 
            or to the gas station, and one way or 
              another, he would kill me.

                            KIEFER
            I m not asking you to give her the 
              abortion.  Just check her out.  If you 
              examine her and you think we need to call 
            in a psych consult, we will.

O'Shea thinks about it for a minute, then takes off the name 
plate he wears on his jacket.  He tucks it in his pocket as 
he stands up.

                            O'SHEA
              Alright.  But quick.


O'Shea examines Angelique, doing his best to be gentle.

Kim stays close, but she does her best to let Angelique focus 
on O'Shea and his questions.

                            O'SHEA
            How old are you, Angelique?

                            ANGELIQUE
              Eighteen.

                            O'SHEA
            You sure about that?

She looks up at him, then looks away, flustered.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  12.




                            ANGELIQUE
              Well... I will be.

                            O'SHEA
            In how many years?

                            ANGELIQUE
                    (quiet)
              Three.

                            O'SHEA
              That s what I thought.  The only way I 
            can help you is if you re totally honest 
            with me.

Angelique nods.

                            O'SHEA
            Have you ever been pregnant before?

                            ANGELIQUE
            No.

                            O'SHEA
            Are you sexually active?

Angelique s too flustered by the question to answer.

                            O'SHEA
            Can you tell me what happened?

Angelique struggles to find the words, but she ends up on the 
verge of tears.  Kim takes her hand, squeezes it as a sign of 
support.

                            ANGELIQUE
              Please... don t make me say.

                            O'SHEA
              I won t judge you, and you re not going 
            to shock me.  I want to help you.  
              Just... tell me what happened.

Angelique looks at Kim, who nods.

Angelique steels herself, speaks quietly, ashamed.

                            ANGELIQUE
            I was home by myself.  It was late.  
            Daddy works nights and the boys were out.  
                          (MORE)         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  13.


                            ANGELIQUE (CONT'D)
            I was s posed to be reading MOBY DICK for 
              English class, but I tried and it just 
            made me sleepy, so I was playin  records 
            and eating ice cream instead.

                            O'SHEA
            And when was this?  How long ago?

                            ANGELIQUE
            Last Saturday.

He looks at the swell of her stomach again.

                            O'SHEA
            No... Angelique, I need you to tell me 
            about when you got pregnant.

                            ANGELIQUE
              Right.  Last Saturday.

                            O'SHEA
            It couldn t have been last Saturday.

                            ANGELIQUE
            It was.

                            O'SHEA
              You re confused.

                            ANGELIQUE
            I AM NOT!

                            O'SHEA
            Calm down.

                            ANGELIQUE
              I can t tell you.  You re not going to 
              believe me.  What does it matter what 
              happened?  I want an abortion.  Just do 
            it and get it over with!

She turns away from him, upset, unwilling to go on.

O'Shea looks at Kim for help.  He can already tell, though.  
They re done.

As he leaves, Kim comforts Angelique.


O'Shea walks in, Kim close behind.

                            KIEFER
            Give me good news.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  14.




                            O'SHEA
              Honest opinion?  This girl was raped, and 
            she s had a dissociative break with 
              reality.  And she s determined she wants 
            us to terminate the pregnancy.

                            KIEFER
            Who raped her?

                            O'SHEA
            She won t say.  Or she can t.  She s 
              blocked it out.  But come on... she was 
              running from someone when we picked her 
            up and ten minutes later her father shows 
            up.  Who do you think it was? 

                            KIEFER
              That s a hell of an accusation.

                          KIM
            You can t send her out there to him if 
              you re not sure.

                            KIEFER
              Burcell isn t going to like it.

                            O'SHEA
              I don t give a damn what Burcell likes.  
            Our obligation is to that girl.

Kiefer looks at Kim.

                            KIEFER
            You agree with him?

                          KIM
            She s scared.  She s traumatized.

                            KIEFER
            Give her an ultrasound.  Let s see how 
            far along she is.  Until then, I ll 
              handle Dwayne Burcell.
                  (beat)
            Keep me updated.

OMITTED2828


Kim rolls an ultrasound machine over to Angelique, who eyes 
it suspiciously.

                            ANGELIQUE
              You re just going to do it right now?

                            O'SHEA
            No.  This isn t the procedure.  First, we 
            need to see what s going on in there.  

                            ANGELIQUE
            Does it hurt?

                          KIM
            No.  It s just like taking a picture.

Kim helps Angelique lay back.  She raises Angelique s shirt 
to reveal the slight swell of her stomach.

O'Shea squirts some gel onto Angelique s stomach, then sets 
the ultrasound on and puts the paddle on her stomach.

Everyone looks at the monitor.  As it fades in, there s a 
moment where there s a clear view of the fetus --

-- then suddenly Angelique s whole stomach lurches violently 
to the left, and the fetus vanishes off the monitor!

Angelique cries out.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Oh, god! That hurts!

                            O'SHEA
            I m sorry.  I m not sure what that was.

O'Shea slides the paddle over to where the swell is, trying 
to get the baby back on the monitor. 

                            ANGELIQUE
            It s moving.  I can feel it.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  18.




                          KIM
            Good.  An active baby is a healthy...

The entire stomach lurches again, like the baby is 
intentionally avoiding the ultrasound!

Angelique screams.

                            ANGELIQUE
            STOP! PLEASE!

                            O'SHEA
              Something s wrong.

                            ANGELIQUE
            LEAVE IT ALONE!

O'Shea tries one last time, sliding the paddle around to the 
side, to the swell in Angelique s belly.  As she does, the 
fetus comes into view --

-- then suddenly lunges straight at the paddle!

O'Shea flinches as he clearly sees the shape of the baby, 
stretching the skin as it lashes out --

-- and cracks the thick plastic surface of the paddle! 

The baby sinks back into Angelique s stomach, leaving 
Angelique crying, in pain.

O'Shea and Kim look astonished, freaked out.

                            O'SHEA
              Angelique... we ll be right back.  You 
            just relax.  You did great.

O'Shea takes Kim by the arm, drags her to the farthest corner 
of the exam bay so they can speak privately.

                            O'SHEA
            We ve got to keep her here.  And I think 
            we need to do what she wants.

                          KIM
            Isn t that breaking the law?

                            O'SHEA
              I didn t become a doctor to practice law.  
            This girl needs help.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  19.





Very modern with everything necessary for a full operation.  
This is separated from a prep room by a wall made up 
primarily of large glass windows.

Grace, the young woman from the lobby, lays on the table, mid-
procedure.

O'Shea works on Grace, applies gentle suction via a long 
tube.  We glimpse the procedure.  Nothing explicit, but 
enough that there s no mistaking what s going on.

O'Shea pauses for a moment, checks his hand.  A slight 
tremor.  He s still shaken from his whole morning.


Everyone hears the quick percussive pops.

                          SAM
            Shit.  Those are gunshots.


Kiefer hears the shots.  He picks up the phone.  Dead.


Doug stands by Joan s desk.  Everyone else stands, trying to 
stay back from the door.  When Kiefer enters, Doug runs over.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  24.




                            DOUG
            It s Dwayne Burcell, isn t it?! He s 
              finally done it! This is because of his 
              daughter, isn t it?!

                            KIEFER
                  (to Doug)
            Get everybody back to the exam bay.  You 
            and Joan stay back there, too.

                          SAM
              Whatever s going on here has nothing to 
            do with my family.  We want to leave.

                            KIEFER
            Oh, really?  You want to walk out there 
            right now?

POP! POP! A few more gunshots.  Sam hesitates.

                            KIEFER
              Right.  Like I said, get back to the exam 
            bay.  Now. 

Doug and Joan get up and steer everyone else back to the exam 
bay, down the long security corridor.

Kiefer goes to the front door and looks out, careful.


Kiefer locks the front doors, struggles with the key, then 
runs off down the corridor.

OMITTED4040


Kiefer doesn t even close the door.  He crosses to the closet 
and opens it to reveal a oversized SAFE.  Three quick twists 
and he opens the safe door.

Inside, he s got two HANDGUNS, along with several loaded 
clips.  He pulls them out, sets them on his desk.

There s one other thing in the safe.  Kiefer reaches in, 
brings out a BULLETPROOF VEST.           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  25.




He undoes his dress shirt, slips it off so he can put the 
vest on.  Running up his side, ragged scars, entrance and 
exit wounds from at least three gunshots.  Puckered.  White.  


Kim and O'Shea wheel Angelique into this room, using O'Shea s 
security badge to get into the room.  As Kim helps Angelique 
onto the table, O'Shea paces, freaked out.

                            O'SHEA
              There s no rational medical explanation 
            for what s happening to her.

                            ANGELIQUE
              I told you I wasn t confused.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  26.




                            O'SHEA
            You did, and I didn t listen.  I m sorry.

                            ANGELIQUE
            You said I was lying.

                            O'SHEA
            I m just having trouble understanding.

                            ANGELIQUE
              I don t even know why I went out in the 
            back yard.  I just wanted some air.  It 
            was a nice night.


Angelique shakes her head and laughs a little.

                            ANGELIQUE
              I didn t even notice the sound at first.  
              I heard it, but I wasn t really 
              listening.

                            O'SHEA
            What sound?  What did you hear?

                            ANGELIQUE
            It was like thunder.  But not from the 
            sky.  It was coming from the ground.


Angelique closes her eyes, like she s trying to protect 
herself from the memory.

O'Shea examines the cuts and bruises all over her.

                            ANGELIQUE
            It... pulled me... down into that hole.  
              I couldn t breathe.  Then something was 
            all around me, pushing into me.  The 
              smell... so strong... burned my eyes even 
            with them closed.

Angelique shivers at the memory.

                            ANGELIQUE
            It wasn t human.  And it wasn t any 
              animal I ever saw.  It was a demon from 
            Hell.  It treated me like a rag doll.  
            Tore me up... then just...
                    (shakes her head)
            ... gone.

O'Shea is shaken by the story.  He tries to hide it.

It s as if telling the story lifted the burden from her.  She 
manages a smile as she sniffs back her last few tears.

                            ANGELIQUE
            You can see why I can t keep this baby, 
              right?  What s inside of me is evil.

OMITTED4949


BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! The front door is shredded by gunfire!

Caleb and Cole throw themselves against the ruined door over 
and over until it splinters completely.


Kiefer stands just out of sight.  He can hear everything 
that s happening in the lobby.  As he checks his guns, he 
mumbles to himself:

                            KIEFER
            No.  No, no, no.  I m not going to be 
              afraid again.  I m not going to let them 
              control me.

He waits, more nervous as each second ticks by.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  29.





Dwayne, Cole, and Caleb are almost to the hallway door when 
Kiefer pops out.

He fires several times before ducking back out of sight.

Dwayne and his sons scatter for cover.


Angelique cries out, seized by sudden pain.  

O'Shea steps up, examines her stomach.  She s even bigger 
then she was before.

                            O'SHEA
            We can t abort.  You have to have it.  

Angelique looks betrayed and scared.

                            ANGELIQUE
            You said you d help me.

                            O'SHEA
              I know I did, but that was before...

                            ANGELIQUE
            YOU LIED TO ME!

                            O'SHEA
              I never lied to you.  We can t do it now.  
            You d die, or the baby, or both.

Angelique notices a SCALPEL laying on the counter.  Before 
either O'Shea or Kim can anticipate it -- 

-- Angelique grabs the sharp instrument and puts the blade to 
her belly!

                          KIM
            Oh, god!

                            O'SHEA
              Angelique! No!

                            ANGELIQUE
            YOU SAID YOU D HELP ME!


Dwayne, Cole and Caleb all crouch behind furniture.  Out of 
range from the doorway --         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  30.





-- where Kiefer inches further and further away, trying to be 
silent.  Guns up.  Ready.


Dwayne gestures for Caleb and Cole to head for the door, and 
to be quiet.

                            DWAYNE
            Dr. Kiefer... try to see things my way 
            for a moment.  My little girl... I d do 
              anything to help her.  My kids are my 
              heart.  But what you do here... that s 
            not help.  That kind of help, she does 
            not need.


Kiefer wants to respond, but he doesn t dare.  He s about 
halfway to his office now.


Kim quickly readies a syringe, fills it with sedative.  
O'Shea inches cautiously toward Angelique, who keeps the 
scalpel blade at her belly, threatening.

                            O'SHEA
            Put the scalpel down.  We re trying to 
            help you.

                            ANGELIQUE
                    (sobbing)
              I can t have this baby.  It s evil.  If 
            you don t kill it...

Angelique raises her shirt and puts the blade directly on her 
soft flesh.

                            ANGELIQUE
            ... I will.  I swear I will.

                            O'SHEA
            No! You ll kill yourself! Listen to me!

Angelique presses the blade harder and the sharp point 
pierces the skin! A single stream of blood rolls down the 
curve of her belly!         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  31.




O'Shea has no choice.  He lunges forward and grabs Angelique 
by the arm.  She screams as they struggle for the scalpel.  
She s a lot stronger than O'Shea expected, possessed.

Kim jumps in and sticks the syringe in Angelique s side, 
depresses the plunger.  The sedative hits Angelique s system 
quickly and her strength diminishes.

O'Shea gets the scalpel and throws it across the room.  He 
holds Angelique as she crumbles into his arms.

                            ANGELIQUE
                  (weak)
              Don t... let it... live.

And she s gone.  Sleeping peacefully.

O'Shea looks at Kim.  Both of them are relieved and scared 
out of their wits.


Caleb and Cole quietly, creep toward the hallway door.  
Dwayne stays where he is, ready to cover them if necessary.

                            DWAYNE
            We will leave here.  And no one else will 
            get hurt.  All you have to do is give me 
            back my child.

Caleb reaches the door first.  He pauses there, looks to 
Dwayne.

                            DWAYNE
            How  bout it, doc?
                  (beat)
            You still there?

He motions for Caleb to move.


Caleb peeks around.  Kiefer fires twice. Both shots hit the 
wall close to Caleb.  Too close.


Caleb jerks back as if stung.

                            CALEB
            He s all the way down the hall.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  32.




                            DWAYNE
            Where you goin , doc?!


Kiefer moves quicker, not worried about being quiet now.

                            KIEFER
            Did you murder our guard, Dwayne?!


Dwayne doesn t like the question.  At all.

                            DWAYNE
              You re big on choice, right?  You all 
              choose to be here.

He gestures for Caleb and Cole to both go together.

                            DWAYNE
            You choose to keep my daughter illegally 
            from me.  You choose... this.

Caleb and Cole pop out together --


-- and before either of them can speak or do anything, Kiefer 
fires.  Just once.

The shot catches Caleb in the neck!

Startled, both Caleb and Cole open fire.  


Sam speaks quietly to Marie so no one can else hear, trying 
to keep his cool.

                          SAM
            We shouldn t be in the middle of this.  
            We should go for our car, get the hell 
            out of here.

                            ISOBEL
                    (loudly)
              I thought this was so important.  You 
            said this couldn t wait one more day.

Sam raises his hand to hit her, but stops himself.  Isobel 
flinches away, used to it.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  33.




                          SAM
              I don t think you re seeing the whole 
              picture! They re fucking shooting out 
              there! And it s your fault we re here in 
            the first place! So shut up!

WHAM! Joan blindsides Sam, punches him in the eye so hard 
something snaps, and Sam staggers back, holding his face.

                          SAM
            WHAT THE HELL IS WRONG WITH YOU?

                            JOAN
            Your daughter s pregnant... and you raise 
            your hand to her?  Shame on you.

Before Sam can do anything to Joan in return, Doug s right 
there, blocking his way, daring him to try it.

Isobel sneaks a shy smile at Joan.  Thanks.


Dwayne tends to Caleb, who bleeds out quickly.  His neck 
wound is the worst.  His breathing is ragged, gasping.

                            DWAYNE
              You re gonna be fine, Caleb.

Caleb gently shakes his head  no.   He s made peace with it. 
He takes his father s hand, gives it a gentle squeeze.
And just like that, he dies.


No sign of Kiefer now except a long smear of blood on the 
floor.


Kiefer s thigh bleeds freely.  He pulls himself across the 
floor towards his desk, unable to stand.


Angelique cries out as another labor pain hits.  She s still 
mostly out from the sedative, groggy and half awake, no 
strength, writhing like in a fever dream.

O'Shea puts Angelique s legs up, checks her.

                          KIM
            Any better?         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  34.




                            O'SHEA
            She s still not dilated at all.  Not even 
              a little.

                          KIM
            So... what?  C-section?

                            ANGELIQUE
              Don t... don t cut me.  Just kill it.  
              Please.

                            O'SHEA
            I m sorry.  We don t have a choice now.

O'Shea and Kim connect Angelique to monitors, an IV, 
everything she ll need for an operation.

                            ANGELIQUE
              Please... I don t wanna have this baby.  
            Don t make me.  Don t hurt me.

                            O'SHEA
            No time for a full epidural.  Get her 
              started on a local.


Sam stands near the door, looking to see what s going on in 
the corridor or beyond.

                            MARIE
            Sam, stay away from there.

                          SAM
            The shooting stopped.  Maybe they left.

                            ISOBEL
            Or maybe they re just reloading.

                          SAM
            SHUT UP!

She does, but she smirks at him.  


Dwayne stands, composes himself.

Cole stands in the doorway, looking down the hall, trying to 
hide his angry tears.

                            DWAYNE
            Let s go get our girl.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  35.





Dwayne and Cole head for Kiefer s office door.

                            DWAYNE
            Doc, don t make me hurt you.


Kiefer sits with his gun in his lap, ready to fire.

                            KIEFER
                    (quiet)
            Come on in here, let s see who gets hurt.


Dwayne walks up to the edge of Kiefer s office door.

                            DWAYNE
            You surprise me.  A man of medicine with 
            all those guns.  Almost like you were 
              expecting trouble.  Almost like you know 
            you deserve it.

                            KIEFER (O.S.)
            You don t surprise me at all.  A bully 
              trying to pervert God s name to justify 
              murder.

                            DWAYNE
            You don t know the first thing about God, 
            or what he wants.  You don t believe in 
              anything.

                            KIEFER
            Sure I do.  Just not what you believe.

Furious, Dwayne takes one of the handguns, walks down to 
Kiefer s door, reaches around, FIRING off every round.


Kiefer takes two shots to the chest, both stopped by the 
vest.  He barely flinches.

Kiefer takes careful aim at Dwayne s gun and fires.


Dwayne drops his gun, cursing, checks his hand.  There s a 
long ugly red furrow in the skin where the bullet grazed him.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  36.




                            DWAYNE
              You re dead! And you re goin  straight to 
            hell, Doc!

Dwayne leaves the gun and backs off.


Angelique s ready for delivery, legs up.  In labor now.

O'Shea gets into position, checks Angelique.

                            O'SHEA
            She s opened up a few more centimeters... 
            maybe four or five total now.

                          KIM
            Is that enough?

                            O'SHEA
              I don t want to do a C-Section unless we 
              absolutely have to.

                          KIM
              I don t know what you re waiting for.

Kim reaches past O'Shea, checks Angelique herself.

                          KIM
              I still can t even get two fingers in...

With an awful wet sound, a stream of hot, vile LIQUID shoots 
out of Angelique!

Kim catches most of it in the eyes and mouth! Gasping, 
horrified, she stumbles back!

                          KIM
            OH, GOD, IT BURNS!

Kim clamps her hands over her eyes and drops to the floor.  
She writhes in pain, trying not to claw at her eyes.

                          KIM
              I can t see! Oh, god, what was that?!

O'Shea cautiously looks between Angelique s legs.

                            O'SHEA
            She dilated the full ten centimeters... 
            all at once.

Angelique screams like she s being pulled apart.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  37.




                            ANGELIQUE
            IT S COMING! IT S COMING!


Dwayne gives Cole his rifle, takes Cole s handgun so he s got 
a .45 in each hand.

                            DWAYNE
                    (hushed)
            It s time.  I m going in low. 

Nothing else needs to be said.  Almost as one, Dwayne and 
Cole swing out into the door.


Several of the shots hit Kiefer. 

He s driven back against the wall by several shots.

His gun hand takes a particularly nasty shot, fingers ruined.  
He s in no shape to fire back.

Dwayne signals Cole to hold his fire.

Dwayne runs in and kicks Kiefer s gun away.


Angelique s stomach lurches and twitches wildly.

O'Shea moves out of the way just before more of that vile 
liquid explodes out of her.  Lots of it.  Everywhere.

                          KIM
            WHAT WAS THAT?! WHAT S HAPPENING?!


Dwayne stands over Kiefer, looks down at his hands.

                            DWAYNE
            Guess that was your gun hand, huh?  Looks 
              pretty useless now.

He nudges the ruined hand hanging from the wrist, and Kiefer 
cries out.

                            DWAYNE
            That hurt?

Dwayne steps on Kiefer s wrist, bears down full-weight.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  38.




                            DWAYNE
            THAT THE HAND YOU USED TO KILL MY SON?!

Dwayne stomps the hand, savagely.  Once.  Twice.  Breaking 
every last bone.

                            DWAYNE
            Get that turtle-shell off him.

Cole strips Kiefer s bulletproof vest off him.  As he does, 
Dwayne looks around Kiefer s office.

                            KIEFER
                  (in tears)
            Go on.  Get it over with.  Do what you re 
            here for.  Kill me.

                            DWAYNE
              I ain t gonna kill you.  I got somethin  
              better in mind.

Dwayne walks around, getting a better look at the way the 
place is decorated.  It s all antique equipment from bygone 
eras, outdated instruments to perform abortions.

                            DWAYNE
              Unbelievable.  Every room of this 
              slaughterhouse is set up for you to ply 
            your trade.  Even your damn office.

Dwayne walks over to look at a counter on which are set up a 
full set of silver dilation rods. 

There s a suction machine, and a turn-of-the-century surgical 
tray on display in a glass case.

                            DWAYNE
            The entire history of the children s 
              genocide, laid out under glass.

He looks at Kiefer, who doesn t answer.

                            DWAYNE
              Imagine that.  A sentimental abortionist.
                  (to Cole)
            Clear off that desk, boy.

Cole sweeps everything off Kiefer s desk.

                            KIEFER
            ... what... what are you doing?         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  39.




                            DWAYNE
            Same thing you do every day.  You kill 
              babies and then you dress it up in fancy 
            terms so you can sleep at night.

Kiefer s too weak to crawl away.  Cole grabs him, hoists him 
up onto the desk.

                            KIEFER
            STOP IT! LET ME GO!

Dwayne wheels over an instrument tray.

                            DWAYNE
            You murder for money and pass it off as 
              medicine.   All that high-tech security 
            that just failed you tells me you know 
            what you re doing in here is wrong.  
              You re afraid to face people.
                  (to Cole)
            Strip him.


O'Shea drags Kim out of the way, to the door of the prep 
room.

Angelique screams, like she s being torn apart.

                            ANGELIQUE
            HE S HERE! I CAN FEEL HIM COMING!


Cole holds Kiefer down on his desk.

Dwayne rolls over the tray of antique surgical instruments.  

He uses the butt of the gun to smash out the glass.

Kiefer tries to get a grip on Cole.  He tries to claw at his 
face.  Cole s not letting him, though.  

Dwayne examines the instruments, picks up a wide-blade 
SCALPEL.  Dwayne holds it so Kiefer can see it.

                            DWAYNE
            One of the things that separates us from 
            the animals is empathy.  Putting yourself 
            in someone else s place, feeling what 
            they feel.  When I think about what it 
            must be like for a girl to come in 
              here...
                          (MORE)         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  40.


                          DWAYNE (CONT'D)
                    (shakes his head)
            ... how would you like it?

                            KIEFER
              YOU RE INSANE! DON T DO THIS!

                            DWAYNE
            Well, I m no doctor, but I ve read enough 
            about what you do that I think I 
              understand the basics.

Dwayne brings over another tray.  Silver dilator rods.

                            DWAYNE
            You use these to stretch her out, right?  
            Of course, in your case, we re gonna have 
            to make an opening.

Kiefer doesn t even have a chance to scream.

Dwayne SLICES, right between Kiefer s legs!


At the sound of Kiefer s distant screams, Sam turns to his 
family, terrified.

                          SAM
              That s it.  Enough of this.

Sam grabs his wife and daughter, head out of the exam bay --


-- and into the corridor.  They move quickly, not looking 
back, trying not to panic.  Sam practically has to drag Marie 
and Isobel along with him.


The sight of Caleb s lifeless body slows Sam for just a 
moment.  He tries to shelter his daughter s eyes.

                          SAM
            Don t look.  Just keep going.

But they see daylight, and that seems to energize them a bit.


Dwayne walks over to where the SUCTION MACHINE sits.

                            DWAYNE
              I can t believe anyone ever used this on 
              another human being.

He rolls it over to where Cole still holds Kiefer down.

                            DWAYNE
            I see why you picked this type of work 
              instead of being a real doctor.  This is 
            easy.  You mess up, the kid s already 
            dead.  Who cares?  You just open the 
            girls up...         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  42.




Dwayne turns the machine on.  He puts his hand against the 
end of the tube to test the pressure.  It pulls at the skin 
with a terrible sound.

                            DWAYNE
            ... and then you suck it all out.

As Dwayne puts the end of the hose between Kiefer s legs.  We 
hear that same sucking sound --

-- but this time, it s wet.


O'Shea sits as far from Angelique as he can while still being 
close enough to see it all.  He sits with one hand over his 
mouth, horrified.

Angelique thrashes, in great pain.

She looks down, towards her open legs.  She can t really see 
anything from where she is.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Is everything okay?! Is it coming?!

O'Shea can t answer.  Can t move.

                            ANGELIQUE
              PLEASE! TELL ME!

He doesn t have to.  She can see enough of it for herself.

One long strange leg suddenly pushes out of Angelique.  Like 
a spider s leg.  It curls back in toward her.

She goes silent, not sure what she s looking at.

Then another leg, just as long and creepy, pushes out and 
curls back towards her.

She opens her mouth, screams.

From where O'Shea sits, he can see something else emerge, 
something larger, between the two legs.

Something like a human baby head.

He can t see the face.  But Angelique can.

And screaming just doesn t seem like it s enough to fully 
express the horror.  She goes past screaming to some other 
sound, sadder and more shrill.

And then even that s not enough.  She passes out just in time 
to miss seeing a third leg push its way out.


O'Shea grabs Kim and drags her toward the door to the prep 
room, keeping his eyes on THE BABY, which continues to work 
its way free of Angelique.

He turns away for a moment to check on Kim, and there s an 
awful wet SLAP! from behind him.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  44.




When he looks back at Angelique, The Baby is gone.

O'Shea takes advantage of the moment to drag Kim again.  They 
get through the door.  

He can hear The Baby coming fast across the floor, but he 
doesn t look back.

Kim s foot gets caught on the door jam.

O'Shea leans down, grabs her leg, and pulls her free.  He 
leans into the door, slams it closed as fast as he can --

-- and just barely manages to close it in time.  He hears The 
Baby bounce off the other side of the door, hears it scream. 


O'Shea drags Kim inside the prep room.  He closes and locks 
the door, then leans against it, shaking, drenched in sweat.

Safe, for the moment, O'Shea looks through the large glass 
window that separates the prep room from the procedure room.  
No sign of The Baby.

                          KIM
            Are we safe?!

                          O'SHEA
            Beats the shit out of me.


Angelique s eyes open, and for a moment, she s calm.  Clear.

                            ANGELIQUE
            He s here.


Joan and Doug notice the lights flicker.


The suction machine hitches as the lights in here flicker, 
too.  Dwayne looks up, not sure what s going on.


Angelique looks around, trying to get a glimpse of her Baby 
before the lights go out completely.

Too late.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  45.




There s a BOOM! from the ground beneath the clinic and all 
the lights, all the power, everything goes out at once.


The center of the floor heaves upward, like it s drawing a 
huge breath.  It drops in, leaving a large hole in the floor.

Joan screams and jumps toward the exam bay door.  Doug 
watches the hole cautiously. 

                            DOUG
            Let s grab the patient and get out of--

He ever has a chance to finish his thought. 

Two arms erupt from the hole and grab Doug s legs! Before he 
can even react, he gets pulled down into the hole!

Doug grabs, trying to find something to hold onto, but it s 
no use.  In a matter of seconds, he s gone, into the hole.  
Joan is silent, stunned by what they saw.


Cole steps out into the hallway, checks it out.  It s dark.


So dark now that we can t see the details of Kiefer, the tube 
still jammed up inside him.  The suction s off, though.

                            CALEB
            It s all dark, daddy.

Cole comes back in, looks at Kiefer.

                            COLE
            Is he..?

                            DWAYNE
            Gone on to his final judgement.

                            COLE
              I ain t never seen nothing like that.  
            What we did...

                            DWAYNE
            ... was God s will.  I told you... He 
            spoke to me.

                            COLE
              I know.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  46.




                            DWAYNE
            We just gotta find your sister now.


Dwayne and Cole step out together.

They head for the next door down from Kiefer s office.  The 
procedure room.


Joan huddles in a corner with Grace.  They hear a sound that 
comes from the hole in the middle of the floor.

It s too dark to make out much detail, but they can see the 
arms as they emerge from the hole again.

Something slowly rises up out of the hole.  We can t get a 
good look at what pulls itself up, but it s big enough that 
it blocks out whatever light remains.

All they can do is stare up at the black mass that towers 
over them, not quite able to make out details, afraid of what 
they might see if there was more light.

This is THE FATHER of Angelique s baby.


They step up to the door to the procedure room.  Gun ready, 
Dwayne opens it.  Just a crack.

Dwayne glances in.  When he sees Angelique on the table, it s 
like he s been shot. 

                            DWAYNE
            Oh, no.  No, no, no, no...

He rips open the door --


-- and Cole follows him into the room.

Dwayne runs to Angelique, and for the first time, Dwayne 
doesn t seem so scary.  He looks devastated at all the blood.

                            DWAYNE
            Oh, God, please don t take my little 
            girl.  I m sorry she let these monsters 
            touch her, but she s so young.  
                          (MORE)         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  47.


                          DWAYNE (CONT'D)
            She was afraid.  Don t punish her by 
              taking her life and her baby the same 
            day.

Cole looks at the blood on the floor around Angelique, looks 
at the way there s a trail of it leading away from the table.


Darry walks down the hall, in a daze, holding his gun still, 
but barely even aware of it.

                            DARRY
              Daddy?  You here?

He walks right past the door to the procedure room, all the 
way to the end of the hall.


Darry walks back into the exam bay, in a daze, looking for 
Dwayne and Cole, but barely aware of his surroundings.

It s so dark that he walks right into something, like a wall 
but black, wet, dirty.

Darry pokes it with the barrel of his gun.

                            DARRY
              Daddy?

Darry reaches out, touches whatever s in front of him.  As if 
in response, there s a growl, low and animal.

He looks up, up, still seeing only black --

-- until he looks right into a pair of red eyes, luminescent 
in the darkness, staring down at him.

Darry opens his mouth to scream.


Dwayne hears Darry s scream.  He also hears it cut short.

                            COLE
              Darry...         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  48.




A sound from the shadows.  Awful, sick crying from The Baby.   *
Dwayne and Cole look at each other with disbelief.

                            DWAYNE *
            It s a miracle.  She came in here for an  *
              abortion, but the Lord intervened.  She 
            had her baby.  

                            COLE
            Ain t possible.  That can t be her baby.

                            DWAYNE
            Of course it is.

                            COLE
            Then what s it doing on the floor?  And 
            look at all the blood, daddy.  Where are 
            the other doctors? 


O'Shea and Kim huddle together, hidden as much as is 
possible, trying not to move or even to breathe.  They can 
hear Dwayne and Cole clearly.

                            DWAYNE (O.S.)
            We ll deal with them later.  Right now, 
            we need to help her baby.

O'Shea peeks through the wall window that divides the two 
rooms.  He s careful not to be noticed.


A sound.  Multiple legs skittering across tile.  

                            COLE
              Daddy... please.  Let s go. *


The Father steps over Darry s headless body to leave.

The door to the hall is too small, so The Father starts 
slamming its body into the door frame, starts clawing at the 
door to pull it apart.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  49.




The noise is horrific.  Joan covers her ears and keeps her 
eyes shut, holds Grace tight.


The sound of the BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! of The Father trying to  *
get out of the exam bay continues OFF-SCREEN. *

                            COLE *
              What s that?! *

                            DWAYNE *
              Doesn t matter.  Find the baby. *

Cole sets down his gun and bends down, moving around  *
Angelique s bed, looking along the wall. *

Suddenly, he spots the Baby, backed into a corner and  *
hissing.  Cole tries to make sense of what he s seeing. *

                            COLE *
            WHAT. THE. HELL. IS. THAT?! *

He stumbles back away from it. *

                            DWAYNE *
              What? *

                            COLE *
            I m sorry, Daddy.  I can t do this  *
              anymore.  I can t... *

Cole turns and runs from the room.  A moment later, his  *
screams start OFF-SCREEN. *

Angelique s eyes open.  She s oddly calm, all the pain gone. *

                            ANGELIQUE *
            He s here.

Dwayne turns to Angelique, shaken, surprised she s awake. *

                            DWAYNE
            What did you say, honey?

                            ANGELIQUE
            My baby s father has come for him.

                            DWAYNE
            What are you talking about? *

Cole s screams go shrill.  Then stop.  Abruptly.       EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  49A.




Dwayne walks around to where he can get a glimpse of the  *
Baby.  Just a leg.  The shape of it. *

He shakes his head, puzzled, a little numb from it all. *

                            DWAYNE
            This doesn t make sense.  We did what you 
              asked, Lord.  So why punish us?  Why take 
            all of my boys?  Why make that... thing? *

One last BOOM! in the corridor and Dwayne hears something 
heavy collapse. *

For the first time, The Father finds its voice and bellows, 
an inhuman noise that echoes through the whole building.

In response, The Baby lets out a single sharp cry.

                            DWAYNE
            YOU TOLD ME TO PROTECT THE BABY!         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  50.




Dwayne runs for the door, forgetting Angelique, forgetting 
The Baby, just wanting out.


Dwayne stumbles out into the corridor.  

He makes it about halfway down the hall, then has to pause 
for a moment, tries to catch his breath.  

He looks back down the corridor.  The doors to the exam bay 
stands open, torn off their hinges.

Deep in the shadows of the doorway, Dwayne sees two small 
spots of glowing red.  He isn t sure what it is --

-- until they blink.

The Father steps out from the shadows, through the doorway.

There s still almost no light in here, but this is the best 
view we ve had of The Father.

Dwayne stands frozen by the sight. 

There s very little about this thing that looks human.  

Its face is built around a wide scoop of a mouth with rows of 
small sharp teeth.  It s got black scaled skin that looks 
wet, like a snake.  

And it s huge, practically taking up the entire width of the 
hallway.


Angelique looks down and sees Cole s gun.  It s close, lying 
on the floor.

She rips out her IV, then pushes herself off the table.

She lands hard, but barely notices.  She s lost a lot of 
blood and she s weak.  She just pulls herself across the 
floor, towards the gun.

She reaches for the gun, then uses it to prop herself up 
against the wall.


Dwayne takes one step back.  Another.

Never taking his eyes off The Father.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  51.




Suddenly, there s a familiar voice.  But not like distant 
thunder this time.  All around him, so loud he shakes.

                          THE FATHER
              PROTECT.  THE BABY.

And as Dwayne realizes --

                            DWAYNE
            It was... you...

- his legs buckle, and he wets himself, almost collapses.  He 
backs away, watching The Father warily.

                            DWAYNE
            ... no... please, God, no...

The Father watches Dwayne back away.  He lets him go for a 
moment, then suddenly ROARS --

-- which is enough to get Dwayne running --

-- spurring The Father into pursuit!


Angelique checks the gun, makes sure it s ready, a round in 
the chamber.

She looks into the shadows.  She can t see The Baby anywhere.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Come on, baby... why don t you come out? 

There s a sound in the shadows.  Faint.

Angelique looks toward the sound, still not seeing anything.

                            ANGELIQUE
              Please... please... come to Mommy.


The Father sprints forward, a blur of motion that hits Dwayne 
like a train, driving him to the floor!

Dwayne screams, and The Father falls over him like a shadow!


Angelique does her best not to look scared as she hears The 
Father tear Dwayne to pieces.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  52.




She smiles at the shadows, and with a nervous, quivering 
voice, she starts to sing a lullaby.

That does it.  Finally.  The Baby inches forward out of the 
shadows.  We see the legs at first, the general shape of it 
in the shadows.

                            ANGELIQUE
                  (nods)
              That s right.  Come on.
                  (keeps singing)

The Baby edges forward just a little bit more, and we see 
just its face in the light.  And as bizarre as the rest of it 
is, when we see just the face, it looks like nothing more 
than a normal baby boy.  Crying for his mommy.


The Father finishes with Dwayne and stands.  Sniffing the 
air, The Father walks to the door of the procedure room.


The Baby crawls all the way to Angelique.  We never see its 
face again... just the crazy spider legs and bloated white 
body, and the back of its head.

When it s close enough, she puts the barrel of the rifle 
against its head.

The door suddenly flies off the hinges as The Father tries to 
push its way into the room.

The Baby looks up at The Father, but Angelique stays focused, 
her eyes filled with tears.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Time to sleep, little one.

She pulls the trigger --

-- and BLAM! The Baby s skull is splashed across the floor! 

The Father stands in the doorway, looking in at Angelique and 
his dead child.  It s hard to read any emotion from this 
thing.  All Angelique can see are those eyes.

The Father steps in.  Angelique doesn t move, too weak and 
scared to run.  The Father reaches out, picks up The Baby.

Holding it close, The Father turns and ROARS at Angelique, a 
terrifying sound full of anger and pain.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  53.




She doesn t move.  She just closes her eyes and takes it.

The Father turns and, still carrying The Baby close, heads 
into the corridor, back towards the way he came. 

Another distant roar, that low rumble for a moment, then...

... nothing.  He s gone.

It s just Angelique, exhausted and bleeding, clutching the 
gun close.

O'Shea appears in the doorway from the prep room.  He checks 
to make sure Kim s okay, then walks out to where Angelique 
sits slumped over.

                            O'SHEA
              Angelique... are you okay?

She turns, and he s shocked to see a look of pure joy on her 
face.  She weeps, but tears of happiness.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Oh, yes.  God s will... it s done.

And as she beams up at him --

                                                                  FADE TO BLACK