 
Big men in suits applauding. Before them President Putin of 
Russia welcomes President Bush of America to the Kremlin. 
 
 
The camera goes straight to a small television on a round 
table in the centre of the room. A laptop computer, open, is 
beside it. A screen saver swirls on its screen. 
 
The scene in the Kremlin is being shown by Cable TV News. The 
channel logo is on the screen. 
 
Heavy men in suits, vodka glasses in them hands, stand around 
the table. They are waiting nervously for something. 
 
A well dressed, dapper man, his silvery hair well groomed, 
stands before the laptop. He is VICTOR SHVITKOY. In his hand 
there is an automatic pistol. He smiles. 
 
TV SCREEN: 
 
In the Kremlin Bush and Putin shake hands and chat, 
translators discreetly either side of them. Putin gestures to 
Bush to lead him away. Smiles and smiles. 
 
The NEWSREADER s voice from the TV set. 
 
The voice is British and halfway through the broadcast the 
images change to the Cable TV newsroom. 
 
                                NEWSREADER (V.O.) 
            Today in Moscow President Bush and President 
                                      Putin... 
 
 
                                      NEWSREADER 
          Our correspondent Elaine Midgely is in Moscow. 
          Elaine: twenty billion dollars, a huge amount of 
                                        money? 
 
On a screen behind the NEWSREADER then on the whole TV screen, 
the CORRESPONDENT stands before The Kremlin, lit up in the 
night. 
 
                                    CORRESPONDENT 
          Michael, this is a massive vote of confidence in 
                          the Russian Federation... 
 
 
The men are waiting. One looks at his watch. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                                      Patience. 
 
                        CORRESPONDENT (cont d ON TV ) 
              And it is very much down to pressure from 
              President Bush that the AID has been given. 
 
                                      NEWSREADER 
        Well, twenty billion dollars. How many noughts is 
                                        that? 
 
                            CORRESPONDENT (Laughs.) 
                                I think it s ten. 
 
                                      NEWSREADER 
        A lot of money anyway. That was Elaine Midgely in 
          Moscow. Sport. Tim Henman was knocked out in the 
                              second round of... 
 
SHVITKOY leans forward and turns off the television. Silence 
in the room. 
 
 
The silence continues amongst the men. 
 
Then the door flies open with a bang against the wall. The two 
heavies pull the YOUNG MAN into the room. He is forced onto 
the chair before the computer on the little table. SHVITKOY 
puts the gun to the YOUNG MAN s head. He speaks to him 
quietly. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
              You are a clerk in the Ministry Financov. 
                      (He presses a computer key.) 
        You have a password to an account. I cannot access 
          it unless you enter the password. Please do so 
                                        now. 
                          (Leans in close to him.) 
            What s the matter? It s only American money. 
 
A ripple of laughter amongst the men in the room. With a 
shaking hand the YOUNG MAN taps in a password. SHIVITKOY 
presses  Enter.  
 
GO TOWARD THE SCREEN: 7968332/87/B Bank Code 09 87 96. 
Transfer completed. AND VERY CLOSE ON: Amount 
$20,000,000,000.  As the transfer finally completes, we hear a 
single gunshot. 
 
SHVITKOY looks up. The YOUNG MAN is slumped over the laptop, 
dead. The men are roaring their approval, glasses are raised, 
embraces, bottles of Vodka are waved high. 
 
MAIN TITLES 
 
 
A room with heavy pale green velvet drapes. About the walls 
there is a fabulous collection of antique clocks standing in 
glass cases on elegant stands. 
 
SIR RICHARD is sitting at a huge, deeply polished oval table. 
Also at the table there is the Governor of The Bank of England 
SIR JOHN BARRY. SIR JOHN is a moon faced man with a scrubbed 
look. He has a sharp pale eye. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
          Do we really have to involve them? Can t MI6 do 
                                      the job? 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
          They want to keep a safe distance. And the last 
                    thing we want is the Fraud Squad. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                  Dear God no. 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
                  So we are stuck with these people. 
 
The door opens and TOM and HARRY are there. SIR JOHN stands at 
once and ushers them into the room. 
 
                              SIR JOHN (cont d) 
                                    Ah Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Sir John. This is Tom Quinn. Tom, Sir John Barry, 
                      Governor of the Bank of England. 
 


 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 5 

                                  TOM (Shakes.) 
                          Very pleased to meet you. 
 
TOM does not feel at ease in this august company. HARRY is 
perfectly at home. 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
        And Tom, this is Sir Richard Bowman, head of the 
                              Bank Bowman and Co. 
 
                                TOM (Handshake) 
                                Please to, yes... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Hello Dicky, how are you? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                  Oh not quite in the pink, but well. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    And Alice? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                            Oh she s... yes, well. 
 
                                  HARRY (To Tom) 
                  Dicky and I were at school together. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Right. 
 
They all sit down. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                So shall we... 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
                    Actually someone is joining us... 
 
The door opens and AMANDA ROKE comes in at speed. She is a 
smartly dressed woman - powder blue suit - in her mid 
thirties. She has an immediate assumption of command about 
her. The men stand. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                  Running a little late, hope no one s 
                inconvenienced. Please sit down everyone. 
 
Men sitting. HARRY and TOM have no idea who she is. 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
          This is Amanda Roke from the Chancellor of The 



 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 6 

          Exchequer s office. Ms Roke this is Harry Pearce 
                          and Tom Quinn from M.I.5. 
 
Hand-shaking leaning over the table, the men trying not to 
stand. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Pleased to meet you Ms Roke. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You re a Treasury civil servant? 
 
TOM has got off on the wrong foot at once. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                I m the Chancellor s Political Counsel. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Ah. 
 
                      SIR JOHN (An eye to Amanda.) 
                        Perhaps Sir Richard should... 
 
A nod from her. TOM clocks the deference. SIR RICHARD hates 
this. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        Last night one of our employees stole one billion 
                                dollars from us. 
 
SIR RICHARD pours himself a glass of water. He is carefully 
controlling his hand from shaking. TOM watches. 
 
                            SIR RICHARD (cont d) 
                              This is our thief. 
 
He takes a photograph from a file and skids it across the 
highly polished table to HARRY. He looks at it. He hands it to 
TOM who looks at it. 
 
                            SIR RICHARD (cont d) 
        John Lightwood. A young man I would have trusted 
                                  with my life. 
 
PHOTOGRAPH: JOHN LIGHTWOOD in happier days: shirt, tie, 
Armani. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
          The Chancellor is deeply concerned about this 
          matter. Bowman and Co is more than an old family 
        Bank, it is a British institution. A scandal like 
        this could send it to the wall. It could trigger a 
            stock exchange crash, even lead to a major 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 7 

            economic depression. We cannot allow that to 
        happen. That is why we have suggested that MI5 be 
        called in to find John Lightwood and recover the 
                                money he stole. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I m sorry but surely this a job for Scotland Yard? 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
        There is...sensitivity here. The police would mean 
                    court cases, leaks to the press. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What sensitivity? 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        Look: all you have to do is do what you re told. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I beg your pardon? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  All right Tom. 
                                (To the company) 
          The Stock Exchange may tremble but  Old Family  
            Banks have gone to the wall before and the 
            Government hasn t called in MI5. What is so 
                            special about this one? 
 
A beat. SIR JOHN leans forward. 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
        Very well. Bowman and Co handle certain Government 
                                      accounts. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ah. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What are these accounts used for? 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
                                  Strategic Aid? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
          Yes. For example recently it was thought a good 
          idea that a certain head of state - of a poor 
        country - should have a private jet. To get around 
        his country. So the finance was channelled through 
                                        us. 
 
This loquaciousness from SIR RICHARD has appalled AMANDA. 
 


 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 8 

                                        TOM 
                So you re the Government s dirty Bank. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                      I don t think this is helpful. 
 
                        HARRY (Low to Sir Richard) 
                This is very adventurous of you Dicky. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                Thank you Harry. 
 
AMANDA, a very stern glance at the chattering men. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
      As far as MI5 is concerned, this operation is on a 
        strictly need to know basis. All you have to do is 
          find John Lightwood and the money. This is his 
                                        file. 
 
She hands HARRY a file, signalling the end of the meeting. 
 
                              HARRY (Cheerfully) 
        Well. We d better get on with playing at policemen 
                                        then. 
 
He stands. TOM does too. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                    You will liaise with my office. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Absolutely. 
 
He grins. 
 
 
DANNY and SAM. SAM with tea, cups, thermos flasks, biscuits on 
a tray. 
 
                                        SAM 
                        I am the custard cream lady. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                The tea-tray can be an office weapon. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  You mean poison my way up to power? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Yeah, me then Tom then Harry then the DG... 
 
RUTH, ZOE, TOM and HARRY come into the room and sit at the 
table. SAM hands out tea and biscuits, very waitress and don t 
look at me. The morale is not good - the general feeling is 
that the investigation is beneath them. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Well, we are doing all we can - credit card, 
            mobile phone usage, the works, to find John 
                                      Lightwood. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Probably in Barbados now. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I had Special Branch turn over Lightwood s flat. 
                        The bank identified this... 
 
A photograph of JOHN LIGHTWOOD with a young man. They are 
waving at the camera, drinks in hand. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
          ... as Tim Prachett, also a trader at Bowman s. 
        Looks like he and John Lightwood were best mates. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Do I get the impression that you all hate doing 
                                        this? 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 10 

 
Shifty looks all round. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        Well I m with you. Enough of being PC plods. We re 
        putting an officer into this bank, undercover. No-
                    one pulls the wool over our eyes. 
 
That s more like it! They are all delighted. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
          No one will be told. Certainly not Sir Richard 
                                      Bowman. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Who s going in? 
 
HARRY grins at him. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                          Me? Undercover in a bank? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You have a history of swindling credit cards. I d 
        have thought that makes you perfect for the job. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Yeah. Well. Thanks. 
 
                                        TOM 
        They re looking for someone to replace Lightwood. 
        We re going to make sure you get the job. Malcolm 
        will give you a legend and a great CV. Ruth will 
              give you a crash course on share trading. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Don t worry Danny, it s all about cheating people. 
 
                              DANNY (Uncertain.) 
                                    Oh. Great. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            And Zoe: I want you in there too. Go through 
          files, records, anything you can lay your hands 
        on. We re looking for any record of John Lightwood 
              transferring this money. I want to know what 
        they re not telling us about this old family bank. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Great, we ll see who makes the most money. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                You ll make zilch. You ll be a cleaner. 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 11 

 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Oh. 
 
DANNY grins. SAM has overheard all and giggles. HARRY turns to 
look at her. 
 
 
DANNY is at a computer terminal on RUTH s desk. On the screen 
are fluctuating prices of stocks and shares, some blue some 
red. 
 
RUTH is over the other side of the grid, on the telephone. A 
computer screen before her also shows the market. 
 
TOM is approaching RUTH. 
 
                                DANNY (on phone) 
                          Buying half a yard at 75. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      OK done. 
 
Other phone rings. She grabs it. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
                                  Zurich silver. 
 
                                DANNY (on phone) 
                        Selling half a yard at 82. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                              Too high Danny... 
 
                                DANNY (on phone) 
                              Look at Singapore. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Cripes ok done. 
 
DANNY is seen punching the air. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  What happened? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Danny just made 50 grand. Or he would have if we d 
                              been really trading. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    How do you know about this stuff? 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 12 

                                        RUTH 
          I was in love with a big swinging dick. That s 
                              slang for a trader. 
 
Gorgeous smile from her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      And how is Danny measuring up? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Oh he s a huge talent. 
 
                      TOM (Looking across at Danny) 
                            I was afraid of that. 
 
He looks at RUTH s desk. A photograph of JOHN LIGHTWOOD is 
bluetacked to the top of her computer s screen. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                  Are your old mates at GCHQ helping? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        They traced his mobile phone number. But it s not 
        been used since he disappeared. Nothing s flagged 
        up at airports, ferries. Looks like he s gone to 
                                      ground. 
 
TOM straightens, worry on his face. He looks at the 
photograph. 
 
 
JOHN LIGHTWOOD. He is dead. Burns on his body and cuts on his 
face show he has been tortured. 
 
PULL BACK: he is laying naked but for boxer shorts on a 
linoleum floor. 
 
PAN CAMERA: round to a well-manicured hand, ringed. And to 
VICTOR SHVITKOY s face. 
 
He smiles. He nods to someone. 
 
A heavy man covers the body with a sheet of tarpaulin. 
 
 
Rows of screens of different sizes crammed in rows. A white 
room, pillars, brilliant, even white light from ceiling 
strips. Two dozen men and women in their twenties, most of the 
men in shirt sleeves most of the women in suits, jackets off - 
some exceptions. 
 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 13 

SIR RICHARD BOWMAN is walking an avenue of screens and traders 
with a very smart DANNY a respectful step behind him. They 
only look at them after they have passed. 
 
There are two desks unoccupied. One is tidy the other is 
chaotic, with a woman s jacket over the chair-back. 
 
SIR RICHARD speaks to a young, saturnine, thin lipped man next 
to the empty desk. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                          Tim this is Joshua Ikoli. 
 
                                        TIM 
                                        Hi. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Hi. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        Joshua will take over John Lightwood s accounts. 
              He is very hot stuff. Blazing references. 
 
                                        TIM 
                Have to watch ourselves then won t we. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                      Indeed. 
                                    (To Danny) 
        Tim will help you out if you re not familiar with 
                  any of the systems. All right Tim? 
 
                                        TIM 
                                      Yah yah. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        I look forward to your account at the end of the 
                              day then, Joshua. 
 
DANNY is trying to control nervous excitement. He pulls the 
chair back. 
 
GO TO: ZOE over the other side of the trading room. She has a 
blue overall on and a black bin liner. She is looking across 
the heads of the traders to the scene with DANNY. SIR RICHARD 
is leaving. 
 
ZOE looks tense and grim. 
 
GO TO: TIM and DANNY. 
 
                                        TIM 
                        The disgraced man s shoes. 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 14 

 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t get you. 
 
                                        TIM 
                They say Johnny Lightwood stole money. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Success or theft - It s a thin line in this game. 
 
                                        TIM 
                              You could say that. 
 
Glances at DANNY, interested in him for the first time. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Did you know John Lightwood well? 
 
                                        TIM 
        Don t be crass, none of us know each other well in 
                      here, why the hell should we? 
 
And he s dialling on his phone. 
DANNY shrugs and dials his. 
 
                              DANNY (into phone.) 
        Jazzer, Josh at Bowmans, yeah great socking it to 
                          the natives over here... 
 
Evil look from TIM. 
 
 
RUTH is at a computer terminal. She has a phone head set. TOM 
is looking over her shoulder. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            There s a GCHQ report the German Government s 
        about to manipulate the cost of German steel. They 
                      want the price up five points. 
 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    No trade. 
 
TIM has overheard. 
 
                                        TIM 
                              First day nerves? 
 
                          DANNY (Dialling again.) 
                      Never piss on your own shoes. 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 15 

 
                                        TIM 
                                    True, true. 
 
                    DANNY (Very fast dealing manner.) 
          This is Joshua Ikoli new at Bowman & Co yeah hi 
            Dusseldorf Steel buy at 67 68... thank you. 
 
Slams phone down picks it up again. 
 
                          TIM (Watching the screen) 
        You put a selling hedge on those options then sell 
                                      them on? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 
 
TIM is deeply impressed. 
 
                                        TIM 
                Christ you just made 50 smacks minimum. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 
 
Lifts phone. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                        This is Joshua Ikoli at... 
 
 
It s lunchtime. The brasserie is crowded. TOM and CHRISTINE 
are close together at the end of the bar. Amid the press and 
the noise their conversation is in a private bubble. Both are 
practised at this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Secrecy in a crowd. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              I love it don t you? 
                                      (Flirting) 
Love these meetings too. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We are here for our masters not our pleasure. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Oh I don t know. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So what news from our cousins over the water? 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 16 

 
He has cooled the moment. She becomes business-like. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Washington CIA are hyper-ventilating about money. 
        Twenty billion dollars of aid has gone missing in 
                            Moscow. American money. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Twenty...I can t do sums like that. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            Obviously it s all good will toward Russia, to 
                keep them in step on the Middle East. 
                                      (Closer) 
          Tom, listen. I know I m being rude about your 
                                      country... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Be my guest... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        ... But when it comes to funny money, the City of 
        London is a wide open town. The money could come 
        here. If you hear anything at all, you ll tell us? 
            You would gain much love from the heart of 
                                      America. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              How could I refuse? 
 
Humour glints in their eyes. 
 
 
MAXIME  MAXI  BAXTER walks across the room. She is an imposing 
woman: tall, with luxuriant, long curly hair - Italian looks. 
MAXI sits down at her station next to DANNY who is on the 
phone. From a distance ZOE watches. MAXI looks at DANNY. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      No sale. 
 
He puts the receiver down. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                I m Maxi Baxter. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Josh Ikoli. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                      Nigerian? 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 17 

 
                                        DANNY 
                      My Dad. I was born in Peckham. 
 
                                        MAXI 
              Welcome to the animal room, Peckham boy. 
 
And she s dialling. She lifts one telephone and then another. 
 
                                  MAXI (cont d) 
            Singapore? Yes Lei Feng, it s Maxi. I want... 
 
GO TO ZOE. She looks at a pile of shredded papers. She puts 
them in a bin on wheels and leaves the trading room. 
 
 
Pulling the bin of papers ZOE goes down corridors. She meets a 
maintenance man, wearing overalls. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    This one. 
 
The man takes the bin. 
 
 
MALCOLM is tipping the contents of the bin onto a large 
plastic sheet. There are a few coffee cups, papers and a 
quantity of shredded material. He has a phone headset on, 
small microphone at his lips. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
              Ah Zoe, you have delivered me shredding. 
                                      Delicious. 
 
                                  ZOE (on phone) 
                            How long will it take? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      An artist cannot be hurried. 
 
                                  ZOE (on phone) 
                              Yes he can Malcolm. 
 
She rings off. He is totally obsessed with the task. 
 
 
The clock shows 4.30 and a bell rings. 
 
DANNY is exhausted. 
 
TIM is irritated. Leaning back in his chair he kicks the edge 
of the desk. 
 




 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 19 

                                        TIM 
          Bitch day, bitch market. Wrenched my testicles 
                    just to keep even. How about you? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Up a hundred and thirty thou . 
 
TIM and MAXI look at each other. 
 
And a fluffy toy is thrown across the room at DANNY. He 
catches it - it s a pink fox. 
 
                                        MAXI 
            Animal room, trader of the day. A tradition. 
 
                                        TIM 
                          And drinkies are on you. 
 
 
Champagne. The bar is packed. 
 
TIM is drunk and unhappy. DANNY and MAXI are drunk and happy. 
The fluffy fox is on the bar. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Great. A greasy evening. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                  Little girls. 
 
She goes. DANNY s eyes follow. TIM notices. 
 
                                        TIM 
        She is a bad woman, you want to find out how bad, 
                sleep with her. Johnny Lightwood did. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Noted. What s the rest of the squeeze like round 
                                        here? 
 
Across the bar, by the woman s toilets, MAXI looks back at TIM 
and DANNY talking. She has a watchful look. She turns and 
pushes the door. 
 
TIM and DANNY. 
 
                                        TIM 
                  I m off. Girly club. They lick you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          I ll have some of that. 
 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 20 

                                        TIM 
                                    Good man. 
 
He finishes a drink smacking the glass onto the bar. 
 
                                  TIM (cont d) 
                              (With a flourish) 
                          Into the dangerous night! 
 
 
The room is empty. A mess of screwed up papers. ZOE stands 
with a black plastic bag in her hand. She sighs. 
 
 
Noisy music. 
 
A girl is all over DANNY. He puts a five pound note in her G 
string. CLOSE ON his hand: he nightpalms away a twenty pound 
note. TIM ordering drinks at the bar. 
 
 
TIM is having a private lap-dance. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Think of England, Tim! 
 
TIM waves at him. DANNY lurches drunkenly through the crowd 
and into the gents toilet, staggering by the door. 
 
 
ZOE is stooped, picking over paper thrown away in TIM s 
wastepaper bin. She is finding nothing of interest and is fed 
up. She looks at her watch. 
 
 
DANNY comes out of the gents. For a moment he is stone cold 
sober. Then he assumes his drunken role and staggers for a 
moment, a grin on his face. 
 
 
DANNY and TIM shouting into each others  ears against the loud 
music, a dancer s legs between them on a table. 
 
And then a cut from the crowd and noise to: 
 
 
TOM, HARRY, DANNY, RUTH. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Danny sorry about this early morning debrief, but 
              needs must. Things have become murderous. 
 
                                        TOM 
        John Lightwood was tortured to death. We must know 
        why, but Danny, you and Zoe watch your backs. Hear 
                                        me? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Sure. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Right: money laundering, everyone understand it? 
 
HARRY does not. They all look at DANNY. 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 23 

 
                                        DANNY 
                          You wash the money clean. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              I see laundrettes... 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Right! 
 
                          DANNY (Rousing himself) 
        But it s not laundrettes, it s banks. You move the 
            money from one bank to another all around the 
        world, so fast no one knows where it came from in 
                                the first place. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              So Bowman s is... 
 
                                        DANNY 
        One bank along the way. It can be there then not 
        there in a second. Don't think of cash, coins and 
        notes. It s like... a cloud. It can be blown all 
        around the world, it can be split up into little 
        clouds, it can gather in a big storm in one place. 
                  It's a very beautiful thing, money. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So do we have anything on this bank in Lugarno? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        It s a Swiss Bank. God Almighty himself wouldn t 
              get a bank statement out of them. And its 
          computers are state of the art fire-walled. You 
            can t even get a list of who works for it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Do they have a London branch or office...? 
 
                                        RUTH 
              Actually, yes. They have a suite of rooms 
          permanently booked at the Royal Paramount Hotel, 
                                      Mayfair. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  A hotel suite? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    To entertain clients discreetly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          That Maxi Baxter. I think she slept with John 



 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 24 

                Lightwood. Can we get everything on her? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We will. Squeeze the lemon, good people, and the 
                                pips will come. 
 
 
A senior HOTEL MANAGER - immaculately dressed - TOM, MALCOLM 
and two assistants with steel boxes and bags. 
 
The MANAGER nervous. 
 
                          TOM (Low to the Manager) 
            You are certain that all the Hotel security 
                  circuits in the rooms are turned off? 
 
The MANAGER about to speak. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            Don t worry I checked. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Then... 
 
A gesture towards the door. The MANAGER puts a key into the 
door. 
 
 
The MANAGER leads the MI5 group into the room. They stand for 
a moment stunned by luxurious, 18th century period splendour. 
It is contrasted by a wonderful collection of early 20th 
Century abstract art. 
 
Then the team are pulling on plastic gloves. This further 
unnerves the MANAGER. 
 
TOM takes out a paper. 
 
                                        TOM 
        This is a copy of the official secrets act. Please 
                  sign it. For your own peace of mind. 
 
                                      MANAGER 
                        My guests must not know... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        They won t. No one sees us, we go through walls. 
 
The MANAGER signs the official secrets act. TOM pockets it. 
They wait. The MANAGER leaves. 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 25 

                                        TOM 
          Just pop through the wall, get us a cup of tea 
                              would you Malcolm. 
 
Grins all round. MALCOLM blushes. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                  Sorry got a bit carried away there. 
 
One of the team opens double doors revealing to a magnificent 
bedroom - king size bed, gold drapes soaring up to a canopy. 
They stare. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Let s rig the place and get out of here. 
 
 
HARRY, MALCOLM and TOM. 
 
MALCOLM, with great care is laying out shredded paper which 
has been glued back onto a flimsy base. He treats them like 
rare manuscripts. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              So what do we have? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
      An amazing thing. Richard Bowman opened an account 
          for John Lightwood, with an opening balance of 
          five hundred thousand pounds, the day the one 
                        billion dollars went missing. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      A bonus? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          No. Bonuses to employees are paid at the end of 
        the year. This was opened directly by Sir Richard, 
        then a copy of the account sent to Lightwood. And 
              clearly someone destroyed any record of it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Or thought they had. Before our Leonardo of the 
                            dustbins got hold of it. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              Oh thank you Harry. 
 
                                        TOM 
      So what does this mean? John Lightwood was paid to 
                              steal from the bank? 
 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 26 

                                        HARRY 
        We need to know more. Tell Danny to get friendly 
            with the Maxi girl. As friendly as it takes. 
 
TOM looks at him. This means  sleep with someone if necessary  
and they both know it. 
 
 
TOM comes in from the pods and is making his way toward his 
station. 
 
RUTH is at her station standing with a big art book open. She 
calls out to TOM. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Tom! Where have you been? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Don t ask. 
 
RUTH drops the book. She disappears behind her desk to 
retrieve it. She pops back up, slams the book down on the 
desk. 
 
It is of an altar piece showing the crucifixion. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                It was Russian! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            The way they crucified him. Look. Here s a 
              fifteenth century, Russian ikon. See? Arms 
          straight, feet not crossed. A Russian did this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Russia. 
 
RUTH loves art. Her hands caress the two images. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        It s right in the tradition. 
 
 
An intimate, dark, snug room, curtains drawn, books on 
shelves, a small exquisite desk, small beautiful paintings on 
the walls with individual wall-lamps lighting them - amongst 
them an ikon. The bust of SIR RICHARD s father - bronze, 
imposing - overlooks the scene from a shelf of its own. 
 
SIR RICHARD is sitting in a big armchair. He looks very 
nervous. VICTOR SHVITKOY sits, near, legs crossed. 
 
CLOSE TO: his hands as he taps an oval black Russian cigarette 
on a black and gold packet. 
 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 29 

                                    SIR RICHARD 
            Dear God Victor what did you do to that boy? 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                            I tortured him to death. 
 
SIR RICHARD goes white. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                  Why? What kind of creature are you? 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                          He stole from me, Dicky. 
                          (He looks at the bust.) 
                This was your father s room, wasn t it? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
              I should never have got involved with you. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          I approached you, remember? You were horrified, 
          then you said yes. For a handsome commission. 
                                  (Pulls back) 
          This boy Lightwood. You had no idea what he was 
                                        doing? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        I swear to you, no. Greed must have overcome him. 
        But in the name of God, why leave him on Hampstead 
                              Heath like that... 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
      It was a warning. To you, you genitally-shrivelled 
                              English pant-pisser. 
                                  (He laughs.) 
          That is so much better in Russian, if only you 
                              spoke my language. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                  You re insane. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          No, just free to do what I want. Huge sums of 
                      money make anything possible. 
                      (Close suddenly, threatening.) 
          Listen, English banker. The transfer of the one 
          billion dollars was a trial. Now we have to take 
        the risk of transferring the rest of the money out 
                  of Moscow. Nineteen billion dollars. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                    Oh God... 
 


 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 30 

                                      SHVITKOY 
        The CIA, the Russian Federation security services 
        are looking high and low for that money. It must 
                    go in the next forty-eight hours. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                I have no choice. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          No, you don t, my friend. Nothing will go wrong 
        this time. When the money comes into your bank you 
        will personally make sure it gets to Switzerland. 
 
SIR RICHARD can barely speak. 
 
SHVITKOY s attention has been caught by a Russian Ikon hanging 
on the wall. He stands, leans toward it and marvels. 
 
                                SHVITKOY (cont d) 
            I had no idea your father owned an Ikon by 
        Dionysius. 15th century, it s incredibly rare. You 
        know what Dostoevsky said:  Beauty will redeem the 
                                      world.  
 
SHVITKOY looks at him. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                        Please. Take it as a gift. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                            Why thank you, Dicky. 
 
Hands - a clawed embrace - lift the precious ikon off the 
wall. He lifts a coat, the ikon disappearing beneath it. 
 
                                SHVITKOY (cont d) 
                              I ll see myself out. 
 
CLOSE ON: SIR RICHARD. 
 
 
SIR RICHARD is on his knees over a lavatory bowl. He sits up, 
he stands, he wipes his mouth. 
 
He takes out a mobile telephone and dials. 
 
 
GENERAL POV: overhead looking down on the floor of a bare 
room, a pilates mat on polished floorboards. White venetian 
blinds, slatted sunlight. A punch bag hangs from a hook in the 
ceiling. 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 31 

 
AMANDA - in the latest work-out gear - is doing pilates 
exercises on her own. Self-obsession. 
 
A mobile rings. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                        Speak. 
 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
          Shvitkoy wants to launder the rest of the money. 
 
CUT BETWEEN: THE WORK-OUT ROOM AND THE TOILET showing the 
speaker, except where marked: 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                        Where are you ringing from? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                Toilet, a toilet. 
 
AMANDA, a beat, judging how to handle him. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                        When does he want to do it? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                        In forty-eight hours time. 
 
Even AMANDA has to blink. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                Well, terrific. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
              I don t see anything  terrific  about it! 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                      This time we ll make it work. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                              It s too dangerous. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        Same as before. Who is going to handle the money 
                                    this time? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        I don t know, I can t think. Everything s crowding 
                                        in. 
                                    (A beat.) 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 32 

                                Alright, I will. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                    No. You must be deniable in this. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
              I am very unhappy. I want to talk to the 
                                      Chancellor. 
She looks up in the air -  give me patience.  Then at her most 
sugary. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        This matter is too sensitive for the Chancellor to 
                          be involved in directly. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                      But if it goes wrong again... 
 
                                        AMANDA 
          Sir Richard. We are all aware of the great risk 
                  you are taking for the government. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        I m not taking it for the Government I m taking it 
                                for the Country! 
 
                                        AMANDA 
            Yes of course. Just find someone to do it. 
                                    (A beat.) 
                                  Sir Richard? 
 
He rings off. 
 
BACK TO AMANDA. 
 
                                AMANDA (cont d) 
                                    Bloody men! 
 
She throws the phone across the floor. It skids and hits 
skirting board. 
 
She is shaking. She steadies herself. With a ferocious cry she 
kicks the punch-bag with her foot. 
 
 
It s early morning, Soho has barely woken up. The bar has just 
opened. A waiter is taking chairs off the tables. 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE DALE sit at the end of the bar drinking 
coffee. They have croissants. 
 



 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 33 

                                      CHRISTINE 
                      Do you...do your own laundry? 
 
                                  TOM (Laughs) 
                                    Do I what? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        I m talking about Britain. There s a rumour about 
            a British Bank, Bowman and Co, doing something 
                                      wicked? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          How would you know that? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          We have to know, we re America, we re trying to 
        run the whole damn planet. Come on Tom. The money 
        stolen in Moscow. It will be laundered. Has your 
        Brit Bank turned baddie and taken in the washing? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              That s ridiculous. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
      Be careful, Tom. We want our money back and if you 
              Brits are holding out on us in someway... 
 
                                        TOM 
        No no, we re just a poor little country out here 
          on the edge of the American Empire. We wouldn t 
                      dream of touching your money. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      Good. You know your place then. 
 
And this time their eyes are not smiling. 
 
 
AMANDA and HARRY are arguing in HARRY s office. 
 
TOM is watching from his station. 
 
And everyone on the grid is watching TOM, waiting for him to 
make a move. 
 
He does. He goes toward s HARRY s office. 
 
CONTINUOUS SHOT: FOLLOW TOM into HARRY s office. 
 
He opens the door without knocking. A row is in mid flow. 
 



 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 34 

                                        HARRY 
        Does Downing Street want to know what is going on 
                            in this bank or not? 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        Downing Street does not want you accusing a man of 
          Sir Richard Bowman s importance of laundering 
                              Russian Mafia money. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Tom close the bloody door! 
 
TOM closes the door. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                      You have exceeded your remit. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Oh, remit! 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                        You put a mole in the bank. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The only hope of recovering the stolen money is to 
            find out what has been going on at Bowman s. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        You are interfering in matters that are not your 
          concern. You are to withdraw your officer from 
                                this operation. 
 
TOM suddenly loses his temper. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Are you giving us orders? 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                      Absolutely. 
 
                                        TOM 
        And who are you to do that? Are you from the Joint 
          Intelligence Committee? No. Are you a member of 
        the Government, no, did someone elect you, no, are 
          you even a real civil servant, no. So what are 
                                        you? 
 
A beat. She glares at them. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
          Take this seriously gentlemen, very seriously. 
 
She waits a moment, then goes, TOM opening the door for her. 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 35 

 
TOM swings the door shut. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            The new world order. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Harry...How come our gremlin from Downing Street 
                        knows Danny is undercover? 
 
They look at each other. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      If there s a leak in this department, we must plug 
                                      it now. 
 
They look at each other. 
 
 
COLIN is at work. TOM comes in. 
 
TOM and COLIN. 
 
TOM looks up at a camera in the corner. He suddenly climbs up 
onto a table and pulls the cord out. 
 
COLIN is bewildered. TOM jumps off the table. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Colin I m going to have to trust you. I just have 
                      to take that leap in the dark. 
 
                              COLIN (Intimidated) 
                              What do you mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Someone has been passing on details of the Bank 
        operation. I want you to monitor all the computers 
                                  on the Grid. 
 
COLIN pauses to take this in then recoils. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        You want me to snitch?...I don t want to do that 
                                        Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
          This job asks difficult things of us sometimes. 
 
COLIN looks at TOM. He s going to do it. 
 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 36 

 
It s late at night. Main lights are off. Pools of light in the 
gloom. 
 
TOM is waiting, keeping his eye on COLIN who is working at his 
computer. 
 
COLIN takes pages from a printer. He sinks his head into his 
hands. 
 
TOM stands and goes over to him. COLIN looks up, red eyed with 
fatigue. 
 
He hands the papers to TOM. He looks at them. 
 
CLOSE UP: TOM s face. It hardens. 
 
 
TOM is at his station. Staff begin to arrive: COLIN, who looks 
shifty; MALCOLM who looks cheerful; HARRY moving fast humming 
to himself. 
 
TOM - unshaven - watches each of them. 
 
Then RUTH arrives. She notices TOM and waves to him across the 
grid. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    Morning Tom! 
 
She goes to her station. 
 
TOM S POV: as he approaches RUTH. She smiles then grimaces. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
        Oooh! You look terrible, what have you been doing 
                                  to yourself? 
 
TOM leans over her desk and speaks low. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m going to be in Parliament Gardens in five 
                            minutes time. Join me. 
 
Her face crumples. They are staring at each other. 
 
 
DANNY and MAXI are having a lunchtime drink. Fruit juice. 
 
                          MAXI (Looks at her drink) 
        A carrot and coriander cocktail. They say back in 
          the 1980s young city bloods like us would drink 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 40 

          two bottles of champagne at lunch. Heroic days. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yeah, but where are all the young bloods now? In 
        alchi clinics. Though some get away with it still. 
                              Like John Lightwood. 
 
                                        MAXI 
          Really? What is it you think he got away with? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        The jungle drums say he nicked a billion dollars. 
        Now there is a true modern hero. He was a friend 
                            of yours, wasn t he? 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                        Maybe. 
                                      (A beat) 
          So what are you saying? You want to do what he 
                                        did? 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Well, you know, this male thing we have - 
                                    recklessness. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                I don t think that s just a male thing. 
 
And they are close now. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Tim said that you re a bad woman. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                          Do you think he s right? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                He said there s a way I can find out. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                Going to try it? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Would I be allowed? 
 
                                        MAXI 
            That depends on the strength of your market 
                                    penetration. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Of course. 
 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 41 

They laugh. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                              We should get back. 
 
 
The corridor, empty. 
 
CAMERA POV: look at the door of the Bank s Suite. Then go to 
the lift which is just about to open. Before we see who is 
getting out, go to the bank s door again, then along the wall 
and to the next door. Go through it into... 
 
 
...A cupboard-like room in darkness but for the light from 
monitors. COLIN sits bleary eyed before monitors which show 
the Banco Co-operativo s room next door. 
 
COLIN s eyes close. He doses for a moment. 
 
He wakes to voices... 
 
STAY ON COLIN, not the screens. 
 
                                ZOE (on screen) 
                          This feels so decadent. 
 
                              CARLO (on screen) 
                          I m pleased you like it. 
 
COLIN, stunned, eyes wide. 
 
 
ZOE and CARLO are in the room. They are embracing and kissing. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                              And there is this. 
 
He leads ZOE to the bedroom double doors and opens them. 
They stand before the splendour of the gold draped double bed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Oh yes! 
 
 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 42 

COLIN stares at the screen. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                      Oh no. 
 
On the screen ZOE and CARLO are pulling at each other s 
clothes, laughing, rolling on the bed. 
 
                                  COLIN (cont d) 
                                      No! No! 
 
 
TOM and ZOE are sitting facing each other across the table in 
the conference room. 
 
ZOE is white faced, tear stained. 
 
Before her is a picture of her and CARLO in the hotel room 
embracing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  How dare you put an obbo team on me! 
 
                                        TOM 
          We rigged that room to see what we could get. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Well I hope you all had a good gawp! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Zoe... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Who was on obbo duty? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Colin. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Oh no. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You didn t sign in that you were seeing this man. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      I m not the first to do that. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Zoe, he took you to a suite of rooms used by a 
            Swiss Bank. The bank the laundered money was 
                                  destined for. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 43 

                                        ZOE 
                              Oh please God no. 
 
                                        TOM 
              You know what s going to have to happen. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            What? Are you going to tell me I can carry on 
                  sleeping with him if I inform on him? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I m sorry Zoe, I have to tell you. He s married. 
 
                        ZOE (A moment s hesitation) 
                                  No he s not. 
 
Shows her a photograph. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Her name s Maria. She s the daughter of Antonio 
        Gustino, the Italian Minister of Finance. Your man 
            married very advantageously. For godsake Zoe, 
                        didn t you even look him up? 
 
ZOE turns away to hide her face, devastated. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I just wanted...a little space, just for my own 
                                life, you know? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I will get Colin to lose that section of the tape 
        and shut him up but we need to know if this man is 
                                      involved. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Right, what can you tell me about him? 
 
ZOE takes a breath - it s the beginning of a long debrief. 
 
 
DANNY is sitting on the floor before the sofa drinking from a 
big mineral water. On the sofa there is a pile of fluffy 
animals. ZOE lets herself in. 
 




 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 44 

                                        ZOE 
                              You on a session? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Stone sober. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Please don t be. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                That bad is it? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Oh yes. 
 
She reaches for a bottle of vodka. 
 
 
The dealing is in full swing. 
 
The clock says 12.30. 
 
From ZOE s POV. She looks across the sea of white shirts and 
telephones and monitors to DANNY. He is sitting beside TIM and 
MAXI. 
 
GO TO: DANNY. 
 
Suddenly next to him, TIM stands up. He slams his phone down 
and storms off. 
 
DANNY and MAXI watch. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            What brought that on? 
 
MAXI, close to DANNY. CLOSE UP on their faces. 
 
                                        MAXI 
      He hasn t been able to balance his positions three 
                  days running. He s half a mill down. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            There but for the grace of God go all of us. 
 
DANNY realises that she is leaning against him, a hand on his 
waist. Their faces are close. 
 
                                        MAXI 
              No Josh, not you and me. We are tougher. 
 



 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 45 

                                        DANNY 
                                    You reckon? 
 
Closer still. 
 
                                        MAXI 
            Take me out tonight? Few drinks? Your place? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Oh I think so. 
 
 
ZOE and DANNY talking fast low and heatedly. CLOSE on: their 
faces. Between them the floor of the trading room can be seen 
through a window. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              You can t do that. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  It s her idea. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        When you said you d...with her I didn t know you 
        meant in our flat! She s a target. It breaks all 
                                operational rules. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I know that. And our flat s not cool anyway. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                I like our flat. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          It sucks. Get on to Tom. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        To say what? Please arrange a millionaire s shag 
                        pad for Danny this evening? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Yeah. And make sure it s in a trendy area. 
 
He goes. ZOE incandescent. She flips her mobile. 
 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                He wants WHAT? 
 
                                        TOM 
            A flat. Danny s convinced this woman is honey 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 46 

        trapping him and she wants to go round to his flat 
        this evening - his expensive banker s flat, which 
                              he doesn t have... 
 
                                        HARRY 
            I ll need more than feely feely instincts to 
          launch the budget on this operation into orbit! 
 
TOM, hands up  I m backing off...  
 
                                        TOM 
                                        OK. 
 
 
TOM walking across the grid. He s waylaid by RUTH. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Tom. Something wonderful. 
 
 
A few minutes later. 
 
TOM and RUTH. She has papers. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Death certificate. Maxime Anne Baxter died in 
        Victoria Gardens, Farnham, Surrey, 31st March 1979 
                              aged three months. 
 
Another paper. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
            Birth certificate. Maxime Anne Baxter born 
          Victoria Gardens, Farnham Surrey, 31st December 
        1978. This birth certificate used to get a minor s 
                          British Passport in 1990. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      My God. 
 
                                        RUTH 
              The oldest tricks fool the wisest heads. 
 
                                        TOM 
          What about schools, on her CV from the bank... 
 
                                        RUTH 
              Enrolled at Salehill Boarding School, aged 
        thirteen. Good place for the oddball girl, wildly 
            liberal sort of Rodean for girls on speed... 
                              (Consulting a paper.) 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 47 

Before that, the school she was meant to have gone to - 
Farnham Park - has no record of her. And there are no records 
at all - doctors, anything - before 1990. 
 
                                        TOM 
      So she suddenly appeared in London with a complete 
                              legend made for her? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          It s a puzzle, isn t it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Great work, Ruth. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    Oh I m so glad you think so, Tom. 
 
 
RUTH and TOM. HARRY looking at the material and a photograph 
of MAXI. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  A wild guess. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Try me. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Daughter of a powerful man? Who wanted her safe in 
              England and had the clout to get her a new 
            identity? In 1990? When the Soviet Union was 
                                      collapsing? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Ex-KGB, turned businessman? I m beginning to see 
                    him in the shadows, aren t you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                So? Can we set up a trap for the girl? 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Oh, alright. But the budget won t run to the 
            Docklands shag-pad of Danny s dreams. His flat 
          will have to do. Send a team over to clean out 
                    Danny s identity and tart it up. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We ll have to make it convincing. High flying 
                                banker s stuff. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Within the budget. 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 48 

 
                                        TOM 
                    Zoe will have to go to a hotel. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Can t she sleep on your floor or something? 
 
A look from TOM to HARRY... 
 
 
MALCOLM and SAM, both very busy. SAM is trying to assemble a 
spindly lamp and making a mess of it. 
 
                                        SAM 
            What s Danny done to deserve all this stuff? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              It s a honey trap. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Honey... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        He will be seduced in the interests of Queen and 
                                      Country. 
          SAM is put out. She is thinking about DANNY and 
                                doesn t like it. 
 
                        SAM (She turns the lamp on) 
                                  Anything else? 
 
                              MALCOLM (pointing) 
                        Stock the fridge with Moet. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Hunh. 
 
She stomps off. MALCOLM looks around. 
 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 50 

                                      MALCOLM 
              Right. Ready for the cleaners, I think, to 
                          eradicate personal details. 
 
 
TOM alone. He has the photographs of ZOE and CARLO and their 
negatives. He burns them above a metal tray. 
 
Voices raised in anger. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
        You invited my department into this operation with 
                    our hands tied behind our backs! 
 
                                  AMANDA (V.O.) 



 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 52 

                I don t think it s professional to vent 
                                    frustrations. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
                                  Oh don t you! 
 
                        AMANDA (V.O.) (Very angry) 
          I told you to remove your man from the bank and 
                                  you did not! 
 
                                SIR JOHN (V.O.) 
                            Harry, Amanda, please! 
 
 
Present are HARRY, AMANDA, TOM, SIR JOHN and SIR RICHARD 
BOWMAN. 
 
HARRY has lowered his voice. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        All right. Victor Shvitkoy. 
 
From a slim briefcase TOM - the gesture is contemptuous - 
flicks a photograph of SHVITKOY. 
 
CLOSE UP of the photograph on the shiny table top. No one goes 
to pick it up. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        Ex KGB General, art collector, criminal. Why did 
        you let us go into this without knowing one of the 
        most powerful psychopaths in the Russian mafia was 
                                      involved? 
 
SIR RICHARD closes his eyes. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Did you know he has an agent working in your bank? 
 
HARRY flicks Maxime Baxter s photograph onto the table. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
          No not Maxime Baxter, she is one of our best... 
 
                                        TOM 
          Her passport, birth certificate, everything is 
              false. We believe she is Victor Shvitkoy s 
                                      daughter. 
 
                              SIR RICHARD (Low.) 
                                    Dear God. 
 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 53 

                                        TOM 
        I have two officers in the field. One of them is 
          meeting this woman in... Two hours time. We must 
            know: why is Bowman s Bank involved with this 
                                        money? 
 
AMANDA and SIR JOHN look at each other. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                Governor. Explain. 
 
                                      SIR JOHN 
                I have Downing Street s authorisation? 
 
A contemptuous waive of the hand from her. 
 
                              SIR JOHN (cont d) 
            When the twenty billion dollars of AID went 
        missing in Moscow, Victor Shvitkoy approached Sir 
            Richard. Would he be interested in handling a 
              rather large sum of money, very quickly? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        When I reported Shvitkoy s approach to MI6, they 
                  asked me to do what Shvitkoy wanted. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  And sting him. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Steal the money from him. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
              I instructed John Lightwood to move the one 
        billion into Shvitkoy s Swiss account. That was a 
        loss leader. Unfortunately Mr Lightwood stole it. 
                                  (He falters) 
            The person I most trusted, a brilliant young 
                                        man... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          And Shvitkoy found him. 
 
                          SIR RICHARD (A whisper) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                What about the other nineteen billion? 
 



 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 54 

                                      SIR JOHN 
            Shvitkoy is still going to try to launder it. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        He believes I am his creature. He thinks I can be 
                                        used. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
          You do realise Governmental proximity cannot be 
                                    acknowledged. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You mean the British Treasury must not be seen to 
                    be anywhere near laundered money. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                              That is what I said. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          This will be yellow flagged top secret all the 
                              way, have no fear. 
 
AMANDA clammed up, furious. 
 
                      HARRY (cont d) (To Sir Richard) 
          An incredibly dangerous and brave game, Dicky. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
        Nature intended me to sit behind a desk balancing 
        books, not go double-crossing Russian gangsters. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        All the more credit to you. 
 
A touch of embarrassment in the room. A mobile goes off. SIR 
RICHARD takes his mobile from his pocket. 
 
                    SIR RICHARD (under great stress) 
                        I think, I think this is... 
 
SIR RICHARD answers his phone. 
 
                                SHVITKOY (V.O.) 
                    Are you alone? If not, be so... 
 
                    SIR RICHARD (to people in room) 
                      Excuse me, I must concentrate. 
 
He and AMANDA look at each other. SIR RICHARD goes out of the 
room. 
 
AMANDA has waited for him to leave. 
 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 55 

                                        AMANDA 
          The idea was, and is, to steal the money back. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              For the Americans. 
 
A silence. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Is there still something you re not telling us? 
 
AMANDA s face is stony. 
 
 
Close to SIR RICHARD s face. He is on his mobile. Past his 
cheek we see a YOUNG MAN approaching along the corridor. 
 
INTERCUT TELEPHONE CONVERSATION WITH SHVITKOY IN ROOM: 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          Sir Richard, Dicky, I like calling you by your 
            familiar name. We are close to doing a famous 
        thing. A famous theft. You have no choice but to 
                  move the money. Do you understand? 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
                              Yes. I understand. 
 
He rings off. 
 
And is staring at a beautiful clock in the corridor. It shows 
the time as 4.11 
 
SIR RICHARD, lips open. 
 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                          I can assure you that... 
 
A YOUNG MAN bursts into the room. 
 
                                      YOUNG MAN 
                                      Governor! 
 
 
They are rushing out of the conference room into the corridor. 
 
SIR RICHARD has collapsed. The wreckage of the clock and its 
glass case are around him. He puts his hand out to HARRY. 
 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 56 

                            SIR RICHARD (slurred) 
          Shvitkoy. He s transferred the rest of the money 
                                  from Moscow. 
 
                      SIR RICHARD (cont d) (To Tom) 
                              He s had a stroke. 
                                      (Kneels) 
        Dicky, please, what s the number of the laundering 
                                      account. 
 
                    SIR RICHARD (cont d) (Whispering) 
                          Five nine nine eight... 
 
PULL BACK: HARRY listening to the rest of the number. Sir 
RICHARD s head lolls back and HARRY looks up at TOM who is 
handing him a small notebook and a pen. HARRY begins to write 
the number down. 
 
 
TOM, HARRY and AMANDA are at the end of the corridor 
whispering. SIR JOHN is with a medical team who are getting 
SIR RICHARD on to a stretcher. 
 
A desperate conversation in low voices. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
            The money will only be at the bank for a few 
          minutes. Your man must divert the money at once. 
 
TOM is already dialling. He is short with her. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I know exactly what  my man  must do and at what 
                                        risk. 
 
 
DANNY on the phone. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yes. 
 
He listens. His eyes flicker. MAXI is next to him watching her 
screen, preoccupied. TIM s desk is unmanned. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                        Right. 
 
MAXI looks at him. Smiles. He smiles back. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                  You look like a man getting a tip. 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 57 

 
                                        DANNY 
                              Something like that. 
                                  (Into phone.) 
                              Give me the numbers. 
 
Listening. 
 
 
TOM on his mobile. AMANDA and HARRY are very close to him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        ... 495. Want me to repeat? 
 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t bother. 
 
DANNY tosses the phone back into its cradle and begins to work 
on the keyboard, intent on what he is doing. 
 
MAXI looks across at him then begins to work on her keyboard. 
 
DANNY, with a reflex action of relief, jerks back in his 
chair, arms hanging down. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                        What did you do just then? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                How do you mean? 
 
                                        MAXI 
            Were you transferring something in the main 
                                foreign accounts? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Nah, just looking. 
                              (Stands, stretches) 
                                  Taking five. 
 
He turns away nonchalantly. She looks at his back with hatred. 
She turns to the screen urgently and starts to tap her keys. 
Her eyes narrow. She takes out a mobile phone and dials. She 
crouches into the phone speaking in a whisper. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                              There is a problem. 
 
 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 58 

VICTOR SHVITKOY s face fills the screen, a mobile pressed to 
his cheek. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                                        Speak. 
 
                                MAXI (on phone) 
                      Has the money reached Lugarno? 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                            I ve not been advised. 
 
                                MAXI (on phone) 
                    Oh God, no. It s happened again. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          Alright. Keep calm, CALM! Listen to me. Do you 
                          know who is responsible? 
 
 
She watches DANNY as he saunters to the swing doors to the 
trading room and pushes them open. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                I think so, yes. 
 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
        Right. Stay with him, do anything he wants to do. 
            But get him to tell you where the money is. 
                    Maxime: anything. Do what I say. 
 
He rings off. A look of fury on his face. 
 
 
Fear on MAXI s face. She looks at the doors, as she urgently 
takes a puff on her inhaler. 
 
 
DANNY and ZOE. DANNY has just come through the doors. He is 
high. ZOE is nervous and hurried. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Hey I just nicked nineteen billion dollars! Oh wow 
                        what an amazing experience! 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Danny, concentrate. Are you with me? 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 59 

DANNY blinks and looks at her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Your lady friend is the daughter of a Russian 
            hood, name Victor Shvitkoy. He killed John 
                                      Lightwood. 
 
DANNY is suddenly serious. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            What are Tom s orders? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Our lovely flat now has the trappings of a trendy 
                                  banker s pad. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Can t wait. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Whatever happens, stick with Maxi. Do anything you 
                  can to find out where her father is. 
                                      (A beat) 
Be careful, Danny. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Hope there s good booze in the fridge. 
 
DANNY grins and peels away to go through the doors. 
 
2036 
 
MAXI is checking an automatic pistol. She puts it away in her 
handbag flushes the toilet and opens the door. 
 
She passes ZOE who is checking her make-up before the mirror. 
 
 
MAXI comes out of the toilet and goes to DANNY. 
 
ZOE slips out after her and stands by the wall, watching 
across the crowded bar. 
 
CLOSE ON: DANNY and MAXI. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                        Ready? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Dark side of the moon? 
 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 60 

                                        MAXI 
                                    Yes please. 
 
ZOE watching. 
 
                            ZOE (Into her lapel.) 
                                They re leaving. 
 
 
TOM, MALCOLM and COLIN before massed equipment. The rooms of 
the flat - all steel and glass, as in the brochure - are on 
screens. There is also a London street map with a bleeping dot 
showing where DANNY is. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              I ve got a signal. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Are we ready with the flat? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                All concurrent surveillance systems are 
                                    operational. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Colin when the word  yes  will do use it, right? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Yes. 
 
A smirk from MALCOLM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Let s stay on top of this shall we? 
 
They settle in to concentrate. 
 
 
TOM, MALCOLM and COLIN watch the screen - no sound - as DANNY 
and MAXI arms round each other and giggling go along the 
corridor. 
 
                            TOM (Under his breath) 
                              Come on, Danny... 
 
DANNY opens the door. 
 
 
DANNY and MAXI walk into the flat. DANNY quickly looks around 
him, checking what s changed, what s been removed etc. 
 
                                        MAXI 
          Thought you d be more upscale than this, Josh. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        It does me. I m never here. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                      Drinkies. 
 
DANNY goes to the fridge and opens it. He lifts a bottle of 
champagne. A moment as he stares at the massed ranks of 
champagne bottles. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                      Shampoo. 
 
He takes two glasses with a swagger. 
 
 
Monitor, MAXI looking directly at the camera. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            Don t get too cocky... 
 
TOM watchful. A flicker of nervousness on his face. 
 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 62 

 
...And MAXI is turning to DANNY as he pops the champagne 
bottle s cork. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Here we go. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                          What are we celebrating? 
 
                                DANNY (Pouring) 
                    I don t know if I should tell you. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                            You ve made a killing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Better. I ve got unbelievably hot info. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                        What? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          You wouldn t believe it. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                      Try me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Good old Sir Richard Bowman s family bank is 
                            laundering dirty money. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                      Really? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          And ah...I ve nicked it. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                  You ve what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        It was on its way from Moscow to Lugarno, through 
              Bowman s. I just... pushed it into a little 
          account of my own. Well a very big account now! 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                    How much? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Nineteen billion smacks. 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 63 

 
 
Consternation amongst the listeners. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                          Is this a very risky... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          He s trying to hook her. 
 
                              MAXI (over the wire) 
                Isn t that...what John Lightwood did? 
 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Lightwood? Disappeared hasn t he? 
 
                                        MAXI 
          I don t know if you re a brilliant thief. Or a 
                                fool or what... 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Brilliant thief and in a celebrating mood. 
 
They look at each other then embrace. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                              Where s the bedroom? 
 
            DANNY sweeps her up in his arms. She laughs. 
 
                                  MAXI (cont d) 
                        Oh I do love a corny man. 
 
He carries her towards the bedroom. 
 
 
They fall laughing onto the bed. MAXI s face over his shoulder 
flitting across the room. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I mean I m not actually stealing the money. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                        No? 
 
                                        DANNY 
              I want to return it to its rightful owner. 
 



 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 64 

                                        MAXI 
                          For a little commission. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Just two mill. I m not greedy. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                  No, right little puritan aren t you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Trouble is I have to find the owner of the money. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                            Yes you do, don t you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Can you help me there? 
 
                                        MAXI 
                          What makes you ask that? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Instinct? 
 
MAXI rolls over and spots something under his bed. 
While his back is turned, she looks closer and sees a gym 
membership card with DANNY s photo on it and the name  DANNY 
HUNTER . DANNY turns round just in time to see her looking 
confused. 
 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                I think she s... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                God the cleaners didn t do their job! 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Hold! Everyone, hold! 
 
 
MAXI looks for something in her bag then gets up off the bed. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                                    I m going. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        What? 
 




 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 65 

                                        MAXI 
        I ve left my inhaler. Back home. Sorry, I ll have 
                                      to go. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              I ll come with you. 
 
                                  MAXI (A smile) 
                                  Will you now. 
 
 
They are watching this on the monitors. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              Shall we lift her? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Wait! 
 
                              DANNY (on monitor) 
                    Hang on, I ll bring the bottle. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Danny s tracker is working? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Yes. 
 
                        MALCOLM (An edge of panic) 
                      What do we do, what do we do? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We let them leave. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    Danny will be at serious risk... 
 
                              TOM (Interrupting.) 
                                  Yes thank you. 
 
 
...The hood is taken off DANNY s head. 
 
It is the same room - with the window blocked by chipboard - 
in which JOHN LIGHTWOOD was tortured. 
 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 67 

DANNY is naked. His wrists and ankles handcuffed to an iron 
garden chair. 
 
Before him on a table there is a laptop computer. Its screen 
is lit up. 
 
There are two masked men. One takes his mask off. It s VICTOR 
SHVITKOY. He taps an oval black Russian cigarette on a packet. 
CLOSE UP: his hands and the cigarette. He does not light it. 
DANNY watches his hands. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
            So Mr Joshua Ikoli, my daughter tells me she 
                      thinks you are very beautiful. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                I don t think so. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
        No. Well if I put your eyes out, you wouldn t have 
                  to look at your face in the mirror. 
 
A horrible moment. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Look I ll do a deal with you. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
          Excellent. This is the deal I want. You have some 
        money of mine in an account at the bank of Bowman 
        and Co. Kindly tell me the codes and the number of 
        the account so I can enter the details into this 
                    computer. And transfer the money. 
 
He nods to the other man. He has a needle. 
 
                                SHVITKOY (cont d) 
      My colleague is holding a knitting needle. He will 
        now put it straight through the cornea of your eye 
                            into the optic nerve. 
 
DANNY struggles. MAXI bursts into the room. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                        I found this in his clothes. 
 
It is a toothpick. 
 
                                      SHVITKOY 
                              It s a toothpick. 
 
                                        MAXI 
                            That s what I thought. 


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 68 

 
SHVITKOY looks at it more carefully. Then closely. He pulls it 
into two halves. There is a shiny wire. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yeah you see, Victor, tracker equipment s come on 
                          a lot since you were KGB. 
 
The chipboard and the window are blown into the room. For a 
moment everyone is looking at a stun grenade on the table 
beside the laptop. The grenade goes off. 
 
 
...Still from DANNY s POV. 
 
His hearing is better, though still strange. 
 
Around the table are TOM, HARRY, ZOE, MALCOLM, COLIN, RUTH and 
AMANDA. 
 
They are all looking at her. We hear what DANNY is hearing: 
AMANDA s speech muffled. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
        The Chancellor of the Exchequer too has asked me 
            to thank you. It was a highly satisfactory 
                              outcome. Many thanks. 
                                (Turns to Danny.) 
                    I do hope your hearing is better? 
 
General POV. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        What? 
 
A moment. Then smiles. 
 
                                        AMANDA 
          Well I will leave you to your internal debrief. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Certainly. 


 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 69 

 
AMANDA goes. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        Well, after the excitement the paper work. Written 
          statements all round then Tom and I will do the 
                            personal debriefings... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                       Cuse me. 
 
He rushes out. 
 
FOLLOW: him on to the Grid. He catches AMANDA just by the 
pods. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            What about the money? 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                        What? 
 
                                        TOM 
            The nineteen billion dollars, all of what, 
            thirteen billion pounds? What happens to it? 
 
                                        AMANDA 
                                The right thing. 
 
She turns and goes. 
 
 
The Grid is in pools of shadow. They have all gone home. HARRY 
and TOM are having a drink of whiskey. HARRY pours. They 
drink. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The leak to Downing Street. Do I need to know 
                                      anything? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Someone is on probation? 
                            (Stops Tom replying.) 
          Only tell me who it is...If the problem happens 
                                        again. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Do you know what s happened to the money? 
 


 69                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 70 

                                        HARRY 
                                        Ah. 
 
He smiles. 
 
 
CHRISTINE and TOM are having coffee at the bar. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Funny you were talking about money the other day. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    No you were talking about money. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Our economics analyst at the Embassy has gone 
                                      insane. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            That s nasty for him. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        What s freaking him out is a very strong rumour. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              The rumour being... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Being that the British Treasury have found a huge 
            sum to improve the National Health Service. 
                            Thirteen billion pounds. 
                                      (A beat) 
          There s also a report from Moscow. There s some 
          bloodletting amongst the Mafia. A lot of money s 
            disappeared in London. Twenty billion dollars 
          worth. World Trade Organisation money, American 
                                        money. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Rumours and reports. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Yeah. Take a brave thief to steal from the Russian 
                                        mob. 
 
                                        TOM 
                What will the American Government do? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  Oh give them another twenty billion. 
 
This catches TOM out. 


 70                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 71 

 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          I mean we can t be seen to be losing money like 
                                        that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
They are looking at each other close, trying to read other. On 
the edge of smiles. 
 
 
The study is now SIR RICHARD s sickroom. He lies on a single 
bed propped up by many pillows. There are machines monitoring 
him. There is a nurse sitting discreetly by the wall. 
 
SIR RICHARD cannot hear or speak. His watery eyes focus on 
nothing. 
 
HARRY sits beside him. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                You did a great service to the country. 
                                    (A beat.) 
          You confronted a most dangerous man and did so 
                              with great courage. 
                                    (A beat.) 
        We have recovered this. We believe it belongs to 
                                        you. 
 
HARRY raises and unzips a special carrying case. He takes out 
the ikon SHVITKOY took from the room. 
 
Nothing. Then, hands wavering, SIR RICHARD reaches out and 
takes the ikon. His eyes sweep the image full of love. Tears 
are running down his cheeks. 
 
END OF EPISODE 















 71