 
DANNY sits in the driver s seat observing the mosque through 
the windscreen. In the back of the van sit TOM and ZOE. A 
partition between the driver s section and back means that 
they have to communicate by radio. 
 
                                    TOM (RADIO) 
                            Any sign of him Danny? 
 
                              DANNY (HIDDEN MIC) 
                                        No. 
 
                                  TOM (To ZOE.) 
                  How long since the wire went down? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Fifty minutes. 
 
 
It's a room for discussions and teaching. Low wooden benches, 
painted light blue, are piled up against a wall. There is a 
scruffy, light blue carpet. Bare walls, yellowy strip 
lighting. The windows are shuttered from within. 
 
A group sit cross-legged on the floor. 
 
A young Pakistani man, JOHNNY - very scared, his shirt undone 
- sits before MOHAMMED RACHID. 
 
RACHID is a small but massive man, bearded, in black, white 
and grey robes. He is fingering a wire set battery, 
microphone. There are other young men in the room, all in 
Western clothing. One is at a partially opened window shutter. 
 
FAZUL AZZAM comes into the room. He is tall, with an ascetic 
look about him, and elderly. 
 
Everyone is looking at AZZAM. A moment: no one is moving. 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 2 

 
                                        FAZUL 
                        What's this boy doing here? 
 
                                        RACHID 
              I am upbraiding him, his studies are poor. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                              Boy? Is that true? 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
          Learning should be a delight, not a punishment. 
 
                RACHID (A smile with a wave of a hand.) 
          But with the young these days, video games, an 
            obsession for trainers with bubbles in their 
          heels& What can they keep in their heads? Only 
                                American trash. 
 
CLOSE TO: 
 
FAZUL AZZAM. His face pale, there are beads of sweat on his 
face. The room is silent and hostile. He steps back. 
 
He turns towards the door. 
 
 
                                    TOM (RADIO) 
                          What do you think, Danny? 
 
                              DANNY (HIDDEN MIC) 
                          I think they're onto him. 
 
 
JOHNNY has - a second before - been hit in the face. Blood 
from his mouth. For a moment he is in shock then he begins to 
whimper. 
 
RACHID holds up a wire, miniature microphone and a small box. 
 
                                        RACHID 
            Is this standard issue from MI5? For their 
                                      creatures? 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
          Please, they made me do it. I didn't want to & 
 



 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 3 

                                        RACHID 
          Spy for the West and you are spying for Satan. 
        That's what you did, my son. You embraced him with 
            all your wretched, corrupt, withered soul. 
 
Terror on JOHNNY's face. 
 
                                RACHID (cont d) 
        And what is the name of the Intelligence Officer 
                                  you report to? 
 
JOHNNY's face. He looks from one to the other. 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
                                      Please & 
 
RACHID nods. The men fall on him, pulling off his socks. 
JOHNNY kicks and struggles. 
 
                                JOHNNY (cont d) 
                                      No! No! 
 
They have ropes. One swishes a big cane. They begin to tie the 
rope around JOHNNY'S feet. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY. 
 
DANNY looking out of the windscreen. 
 
They are desperately worried about JOHNNY and arguing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    No backup? 
 
                                        TOM 
            We can't have special forces barging into a 
                                      mosque. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Says who? 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                          We've got to get him out. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          They could be doing anything to him in there & 
 
A beat. They all hate this. 
 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 4 

                                        TOM 
                          Alright. Danny you and me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Great. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Zoe, you monitor. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              What will you do? 
 
                                  TOM (A shrug.) 
          Walk up to the front door. Say can we have our 
                              friend back, please. 
 
A look of uncertainty on DANNY's face. 
 
The equipment beeps. ZOE goes to it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        His wire's back on. Johnny? 
 
ZOE looks curiously up at the roof of the surveillance van as 
the equipment pinpoints the location of JOHNNY s wire. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE, DANNY taken unawares as the impact of JOHNNY s body 
causes chaos inside the van. Glass shatters, sparks fly. DANNY 
scrambles out from the driver s seat. 
 
- NIGHT 1. 1922 
 
JOHNNY lying on the now crumpled roof. Still conscious, he is 
shivering and sobbing. His bare feet are lacerated and 
bleeding. 
 
TITLE SEQUENCE 
 
 
HARRY and TOM, DANNY and ZOE. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Where is Johnny now? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I sent him straight to Five s clinic in Truro. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                He was tortured? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Strappado. Beating his feet. They broke just about 
                                    every bone. 
 
HARRY sucks in air and blows out. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Our intelligence suggests that this mosque has 
          been taken over by extremists. We must know if 
        there is a threat here. But the only agent we can 
                        drum up is a callow youth. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Maybe the service always thought spies had to be 
                                        white. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Point. Were you able to talk to him? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            He was too far gone. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  They put the fear of God into him. 
 



 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 7 

                                        HARRY 
                            Yes thank you Danny. 
                          (He looks at his watch.) 
Meeting room. Half an hour. 
 
 
TOM is at his station. DANNY leans across him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Her name s Vicky Westbrook. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        The Doc who patched me up. Who s got the hots for 
                                        you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Did I notice her? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                She noticed you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Danny... 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Sorry don t mind me saying this do you, after 
        Ellie... But you ve got to ride the bicycle again, 
                                        Boss. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I do mind you saying it. 
 
                                DANNY (A grin.) 
                                        Yeah. 
 
DANNY goes. 
 
The two technicians are now taking a new angle poise lamp out 
of a box. 
 
SAM and ZOE are taking a keen interest. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                Who s that for? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  New officer. 
 
                                        SAM 


 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 8 

                                Who, do we know? 
 
                          ZOE (Shakes of the head.) 
                        Harry s being funny about it. 
 
                                        SAM 
                            Be a hunky man then. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        SAM 
            It ll be a rival alpha male and he will be 
                                      gorgeous. 
 
                        ZOE (Suppressing a smirk.) 
              Get the field surveillance report on the 
                          Birmingham op for me, Sam. 
 
SAM goes, grinning. 
 
ZOE calls across the grid to him. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                                  Tom, meeting. 
 
 
HARRY, TOM, DANNY, ZOE, MALCOLM. 
 
          HARRY (Flicks a piece of paper over the table.) 
            We have just had this from Christine Dale. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Why is CIA London Station suddenly sharing with 
                                        us? 
 
TOM picks up the paper. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Christine Dale is a very nice young woman. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I doubt that s the reason. Americans always want 
                            you to do something... 
                          (he looks at the paper) 
                                    Interesting. 
 
He hands it to ZOE. DANNY reads it over her shoulder. They 
look up at TOM, serious. 
 
A noise off camera. 
 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 9 

                                        RUTH 
                      Oh you re in here. Oh sorry! 
 
HARRY turns, the others look up. 
 
RUTH EVERSHED has entered with files and books spilling from 
her arms, some landing on the table some on the floor. 
 
RUTH is mid-thirties, big-boned, an open friendly face a 
little too well made up. She wears a Spanish floral shawl over 
a frilly blouse and long three quarters length skirt: perhaps 
a disastrous fashion sense but it is all hers. Everything 
about her says  very self-conscious  and  Very, very bright.  
 
                                        HARRY 
          Everyone this is Ruth Evershed, joining us from 
        GCHQ. She is going to run intelligence analysis in 
                    this department. Sorely needed. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Ah. 
                          (Stands, holds out hand.) 
                                    Tom Quinn. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    You didn t know I was coming... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Well... 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Introductions later. Ruth I want you up to speed 
                                      on this. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  Oh am I late? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You re our intelligence analyst, you should know. 
 
HARRY laughs, well pleased with this. The others are taken 
aback. TOM and ZOE catch each other s eye: who is this woman? 
And HARRY is driving ahead. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        Right. We are now briefing Ruth and reviewing the 
                                      situation. 
 
ZOE with the video machine. 
 
On the big screen at the end of the room, a clandestinely shot 
video of MULLAH MOHAMMED RACHID: 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 10 

RACHID gets out of a car surrounded by young men, outside the 
mosque. He is smiling. Young men acting as bodyguards - 
looking up and down the street - surround him. 
 
Street. RACHID again with bodyguards, is talking to local men 
in a street outside a fruit shop. They show great deference to 
him. 
 
FREEZE on a close up of his smiling face. 
This video fills the screen as HARRY speaks like a 
storyteller. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
              Well Ruth, we are struggling with Islamic 
                                      extremism. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Problems in three London mosques have been 
          resolved - thanks to their own communities. But 
          our greatest concern is a mullah in a mosque in 
          Birmingham. His name is Mohammed Rachid. He came 
        from Afghanistan - when we saw that country as a 
              friendly place, wrecked by Soviet Russia. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                How one forgets. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Our Government gave him an extended visa then 
        permanent leave to remain. There was a shortage of 
          religious leaders in the Islamic community, the 
          Government were anxious to help. Most have done 
            well, but Mohammed Rachid has over the years 
                            become... Well... Zoe? 
 
GENERAL POV OF THE MEETING ROOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Here is an excerpt from one of his sermons. 
 
A video - poor quality, poorly shot from the back of a hall. 
 
VIDEO CLIP: 
 
                                        RACHID 
          And when another plane goes down now, is it a 
        Lockerbie or an SOS? And when a plane turns above 
        a city of the West what passenger will not think 
        of the flight of martyrs into the twin towers? It 
          is a blessing there are the young among us who 
        stand ready for martyrdom. Satan may lash out at 
          them, but they are ready for the bliss of their 



 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 11 

                              reward in paradise. 
 
GENERAL POV. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        CIA Station, London, have just told us they have 
            found documents in Kabul naming Rachid as an 
        Afghani intelligence officer who had strong links 
                                  with Al Queda. 
 
TOM flicks the CIA correspndence across the table to RUTH. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      We let a wolf into the fold. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The mosque is bitterly divided between supporters 
                  of Rachid... And the followers of... 
 
He looks at ZOE, wanting her to take up the briefing. 
Photograph on screen of FAZUL AZZAM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Fazul Azzam, the original founder of the mosque. 
        Mr. Azzam came to Birmingham in the early sixties. 
          But, while Rachid may be something of a thug, 
            Fazul Azzam has so far stopped any official 
        complaint being laid. Increasingly Rachid and his 
            group appear to have the run of the mosque. 
 
HARRY s style at briefings: always interrupting. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          All religions have their crooked priests, the 
            question for us is: is this one a threat to 
                              National Security? 
 
ZOE stands her ground and interrupts back. Suddenly it seems 
that they are both trying to impress RUTH - the new girl. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Rachid has surrounded himself with some very tough 
        young men. They blew us, and the mind of the only 
                        agent we had in the mosque. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Is the mosque bugged? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        We have tried. But they carry out regular sweeps. 
 




 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 12 

                                        RUTH 
        Sounds like some jolly trade craft. How did they 
                      know you were in the obbo van? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      No idea. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Ah. Ramallah whispers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  I m sorry...? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          The Palestinians are terrific at it. People at 
          windows, on street corners... They signal each 
                other where an enemy vehicle s passing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Oh right. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                Why don t we just close the place down? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Home office directive. Community sensitive policy 
        parameters. In real speak: they don t want a riot. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Bugger the Home Office. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        If only. But if we are to move against Rachid, we 
        need evidence that would stand in a court of law. 
                  All of you. Find me another agent. 
 
A beat. They are at a loss. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ll go down to the clinic and debrief Johnny. Get 
                              something out of him. 
 
 
RUTH is at her desk, ordering things. She is struggling with a 
droopy lamp. 
 
Close to DANNY, ZOE and SAM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Not a hunky alpha male after all. 
 
                                        SAM 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 13 

                            Alpha female, though. 
 
                                ZOE (To Danny.) 
                              What do you think? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    Oh thing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Bonkers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  But brilliant. 
 
SAM, flirtatiously to DANNY. 
 
                                        SAM 
            Do you think I ll be bonkers when I m older? 
 
Eye contact. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Aren t you now? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Could be. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        THING! 
 
DANNY, ZOE and SAM whirl round and look across the grid at 
RUTH. The lamp has come apart in her hands. She is standing 
still staring into the distance. 
 
Then she throws the lamp away into a corner and dives at her 
computer. 
 
ZOE looks at DANNY with a raised eyebrow:  what on earth have 
we here?  
 
 



 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 14 

TOM is being led along a shiny corridor by a middle-aged 
female DOCTOR. 
 
They pass a patient - an old man - sitting on a bench, knees 
pressed, hands between them. He starts and looks at TOM. He 
has lost one eye - the scar is terrible. TOM looks away. 
 
The DOCTOR is very helpful. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      He s not said anything at all? 
 
                                        DOCTOR 
          Is that surprising? After what you did to him? 
 
TOM stops. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I m sorry what did you say? 
 
                                        DOCTOR 
        The Truro clinic is for victims of torture. Mainly 
          refugees. Some of us resent the debris from your 
                        world being brought in here. 
 
                                        TOM 
        It s your world too. Sadly. It s my job to make it 
                                        safer. 
 
TOM looks at her, evenly. 
 
                                        DOCTOR 
            Yes. I have signed the Official Secrets Act. 
 
She opens a door. 
 
                                DOCTOR (cont d) 
                                  He s in here. 
 
TOM goes into the room. 
 
 
The bedding is rucked up. JOHNNY, wearing a hospital smock, is 
curled up on the bed. His feet are splinted and bandaged. 
 
TOM closes the door on the doctor. TOM sits on the bed. 
JOHNNY s eyes follow him for a moment then turn away. He 
begins to sob silently. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Johnny it s all right. You did all right. 
 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 15 

JOHHNY recoils, huddling up. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                  I m so sorry. 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
                      Safe. You said I would be safe. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I really am sorry, we will look after you now. 
                            (Nothing from Johnny.) 
        You see... we don t get medals for what we do. All 
        we get is respect. And respect you have, Johnny. 
        Big time. Men twice your age couldn t go through 
          what you ve gone through. You re one of us now. 
 
JOHNNY looks away. 
 
                              JOHNNY (Indistinct.) 
                                S wha  they said. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Sorry? 
 
                                JOHNNY (Clearer.) 
            You re one of us now. That s what they said. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              They. Who are they? 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
                                    The nest. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        The... 
 
And JOHNNY is talking hysterically, thick Birmingham accent, 
in tears, flailing his arms about. 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
          The nest of angels, man! They wanted to turn me 
                              into a bomb, man! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Bomb? 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
        They want kids to be human bombs. They want me to 
        be the one! Then they found out I was one of you 
                                        lot! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Suicide bombers? 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 16 

 
                                        JOHNNY 
                        That s what they talk about. 
 
                                        TOM 
            How serious are they Johnny? Have they got 
                            explosives, detonators? 
 
JOHNNY is going away from him. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
              Johnny! WHERE do they want bombers to kill 
                                      themselves? 
 
                                        JOHNNY 
                                      Centre. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Centre... 
 
JOHNNY begins to throw a fit. TOM goes quickly to the door. 
 
 
TOM to a nurse. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Help me here. 
 
The nurse and, from the far end of the corridor the DOCTOR, 
come running. 
 
 
TOM and HARRY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Nest of angels. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Extraordinary phrase. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ve heard it before. It s what Hamas call their 
                        school for suicide bombers. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Suicide bomber attacks. In the heart of England. 
                A beat. They are looking at each other. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 17 

                                  HARRY (cont d) 
            Is there any hope the boy can tell us more? 
 
                            TOM (Shakes his head.) 
          Not now. He ll never speak again. He suffered a 
          brain haemorrhage. They told me it happens with 
        victims of that particular torture - blood clots. 
            (He is - unusually for Tom - very earnest.) 
        We ve GOT to find out if this is true Harry. Let 
              me rattle Rachid s cage as hard as I can. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Be careful. 
 
ESTABLISHING. BIRMINGHAM MOSQUE - DAY 2. 1755 
 
 
It is the same room in which we saw JOHNNY being questioned. 
The low benches are now put out. 
 
TOM is being searched by RACHID s young men. He is fed up 
about it. 
 
They finish and are going out. One man stays, another MAN 
saying to him: 
 
                                        MAN 
                              Don t talk to him. 
 
TOM and the young man stand in the room looking at each other. 
A fly buzzes. It touches TOM s face. He brushes it away. 
The fly touches the young man s face. He brushes it away. 
Then RACHID comes into the room, smiling, a quick busy manner. 
Behind him is an unsmiling LAWYER - he s Asian. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                  Forgive me for keeping you, Mr....... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Anderson. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                    Anderson, Mr. Anderson. Welcome. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Thank you. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                    This is my lawyer, Mr. Hussain. 
 
                      LAWYER (Before Tom can speak.) 



 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 18 

        You are from the Home Office Immigration Service, 
                                  Mr Anderson? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        LAWYER 
                        Do you have identification? 
 
TOM hands him a card. 
 
                                LAWYER (cont d) 
          Thank you. I ll just make a note of this if you 
                                    don t mind. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Do. 
 
LAWYER, a hard glance at TOM. RACHID smiles broadly. 
 
LAWYER is writing details, sitting on a bench, using his 
briefcase as a desk. As they speak he makes notes. 
 
                                        LAWYER 
          What can Mr. Rachid do for you, Mr. Anderson? 
 
                          TOM (Directly to Rachid.) 
        You have applied for citizenship. I have to tell 
                  you that your application will fail. 
 
The smiling RACHID turns to LAWYER. 
 
                                        LAWYER 
        Mr. Rachid was granted permanent leave to remain 
      in the UK eight years ago. After seven years he is 
                        entitled to full citizenship. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Unless there is an impediment. 
 
                                        LAWYER 
                                  There is none. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Oh yes there is. Criminal activity. To be 
                            particular, kidnapping. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        LAWYER 
        That is a very serious accusation, Mr. Anderson. 
              Whom - allegedly - did Mr. Rachid kidnap? 
 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 19 

                                        TOM 
        A young man. Javaid Patel. He is known as Johnny. 
 
RACHID laughs. Then his smile goes. 
 
                                        RACHID 
      He was a spy. And you are a spy. Don t MI5 and the 
          Immigration Service readily exchange personnel? 
 
A beat. The LAWYER is not taking notes any more. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We are going to clear this mosque of nests. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                What do you think we have here, mice? 
 
Impenetrable stares. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We could get the health authorities to put traps 
                                        down. 
 
                                        RACHID 
          But mice are sweet, innocent creatures. You can 
          put them on wheels and make them go round and 
                                        round. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Is that what you re doing to young men in your 
                                      community? 
                      (A beat. Locked eye contact.) 
          We are going to throw you out of the country. 
 
RACHID laughs. He glances at two of the men. They approach TOM 
and stand behind him. The threat is overpowering. TOM is calm. 
 
                                        RACHID 
            MI5. What a sad apology for an intelligence 
        service. Secret police men in other countries can 
        arrest, beat, electric shock, even kill. But what 
          can you do? A smear in the press, a meaningless 
          threat? The world I come from must seem utterly 
              uncontrollable to you. And very dangerous. 
 
TOM smiles. Then he stands. 
 
He walks out of the room quickly, slamming the door. 
 
RACHID and the LAWYER are looking at each other. 
 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 20 

 
Behind the gauze curtain FAZUL AZZAM stands, looking down at 
TOM. He looks very ill, a face set in stone. 
 
 
RACHID is alone with a young man, ABU HASSAN. He is barely 16 
- small, intense eyes stare at RACHID. RACHID is speaking very 
softly to him. ABU has a Birmingham accent. Sometimes there is 
an edge of uncertainty in his replies. At the moment he is 
improvising his militancy. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                  You don t get on with your father? 
 
                                        ABU 
          He took us to that new Hamburger joint on the 
                                  Rossbridge Road. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                      And what is wrong with that? 
 
                                        ABU 
                              It s American shit. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                Don t swear Abu, we are in God s house. 
 
                                        ABU 
                        F... Forgive me Rachid-Saab. 
 
                            RACHID (With a smile.) 
                    Why do you hate American things? 
 
                                        ABU 
                      America is the enemy of Islam. 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 21 

 
                                        RACHID 
        That is true. But I hope you are not at odds with 
                                  your father. 
 
                                        ABU 
                                He doesn t pray. 
 
                                        RACHID 
              It is not for you to judge your parents. 
 
                                        ABU 
                          He drinks tins of lager. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                            He lives in England. 
 
                                        ABU 
            We should live as if we live in the House of 
                                        Islam. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                            Who taught you that? 
 
                                        ABU 
                                    The Book. 
 
                                        RACHID 
        You are an exceptional student, Abu Hassan. Shall 
                              I tell you a secret? 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        ABU 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        RACHID 
        One day England will become the house of Islam. No 
          hamburgers, no tins of lager. All the people of 
              this Island will honour God and follow his 
                        prophet, peace be upon him. 
 
                                        ABU 
                        But how could that happen? 
 
                          RACHID (Very softly now.) 
                    By the blood of martyrs, my son. 
 
RACHID s deeply kind eyes. 
 
ABU, intent upon RACHID s face. 
 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 22 

 
HARRY and TOM. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We need another agent in that mosque. Have we got 
                              anyone on the books? 
 
TOM shakes his head. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    There is someone who could help. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Don t even think of it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Tessa ran excellent Asian agents. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Yes but not all of them existed. She pocketed over 
        a hundred and fifty grand of fictitious expenses! 
                  That s why this service fired her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Nevertheless... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The woman should be in gaol, not running some 
                  tinpot private thingy of her own... 
                                    (Runs out.) 
                          All right go and see her. 
 
 
The room is sparsely furnished: desk, chair, filing cabinet. 
TOM is surprised at the sparseness of the office. 
 
                                        TESSA 
            Well Tom. Come to see how the private sector 
                                        lives? 
 



 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 23 

                                        TOM 
                      I m not here to fight, Tessa. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        No? Oh, what a shame. So what are the goody goody 
                      little spies saying about me? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                People miss you. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                    Oh please. 
 
                                        TOM 
              A lot of us think you should be in gaol. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                That s more like the honest Tom I know. 
 
There is almost a smile between them. Once they used to like 
each other. 
 
                                  TESSA (cont d) 
        But fortunately for me the service doesn t like to 
          wash its dirty linen in the courts, does it. Oh 
                no. We bad apples are just left to rot. 
                                (An odd smile.) 
          Well I m going to make a great success of this 
        firm. And have revenge on the lot of you. What are 
                              you doing here Tom? 
 
TOM hesitates. How do I get to her? 
 
                                  TESSA (cont d) 
              My God, you want help. You do don t you? 
 
She laughs. 
 
                                        TOM 
      We desperately need a good Asian agent, capable of 
            penetrating Islamic contacts. Can you help us? 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                  You re joking. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We have what could be a major incident on our 
                                        hands. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                      Terrorism? 
 



 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 24 

                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TESSA 
              Then I hope you get your heads blown off. 
 
TOM is shocked. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Tessa, if you help the service now, perhaps in the 
                  future we can begin to co-operate... 
 
                              TESSA (Interrupting) 
        The service treated me like a leper. I m making my 
                                  own way now. 
 
                                        TOM 
          This is a matter of national security. For our 
                                      country. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                      Oh puke. 
 
TOM, losing his temper. 
 
                                        TOM 
            What happened to you Tessa? You were a great 
                                      officer. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Shall we say I felt my talents were not valued. 
 
                                        TOM 
          What do you mean, you think you should have had 
                                    Harry s job? 
 
That s it! A horrible moment. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                    Goodbye Tom. 
 
He stands abruptly. The chair scrapes on the floor boards. He 
turns to go. 
 
 
HARRY, TOM, DANNY, ZOE. 
 
Through the window RUTH can be seen working away at her 
computer. 
 
HARRY leans to TOM and speaks low. 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 25 

                                        HARRY 
                  Any luck with... That other source? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      A blank. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            How twisted is she with bitterness and hate? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Very. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Sad to hear it. She wanted my job, you know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Really? 
 
HARRY, to the whole meeting. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          So we have nothing. Just a phrase from a brain-
                                    damaged boy. 
 
                              ZOE (To herself.) 
                                Nest of angels. 
 
She throws a pencil across the table. It rattles on the glassy 
surface. For a fleeting moment everyone is dead still, looking 
at it. 
 
And RUTH bursts into the room, very excited. 
 
They all look from the pencil to her. 
 
She puts a photograph on HARRY s desk. It shows IBHN KHALDUN 
fighting outside New Scotland Yard. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        This happened yesterday. A tramp off the street it 
          seemed, making trouble at New Scotland Yard. And 
                  silly, silly me, I ve just twigged. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Twigged what? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        At GCHQ just before I left, we picked up a signal 
          about an Algerian. I ve hacked into the aliens 
                              data base of the... 
                              (Immaculate French.) 
            Secretariat General de La Defense Nationale... 
 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 26 

                                        HARRY 
          You hacked into the French Security Service... 
 
                                        RUTH 
          They do it to us we do it to them. This is the 
            tramp the plods threw out onto the street. 
 
She puts a sheet of paper on the desk. HARRY picks it up. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Muhammad Ibhn Khaldun. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                  Oh poor man, what a terrible story. 
 
She stops. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Yes? 
 
                                        RUTH 
      He was a University Lecturer. Leftwing-ish. He was 
        arrested by the Algerian Secret Service and given 
                a choice: death or the dangerous task of 
          penetrating an extreme terror group, the G.A.J. 
          This he did, with success. But in the end they 
          blew his cover. A car bomb meant for him killed 
                                    his family. 
 
She puts a press cutting photograph of a bombed car before 
HARRY taken from an Arabic newspaper. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Nasty. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        He s from a nasty world. But he s a crack agent, 
        who didn t want to talk to the French. He wanted 
                                to talk to us. 
 
                          HARRY (Looking at Tom.) 
            And Special Branch nearly chucked him out. 
 
 
TOM, a UNIFORMED PC and an officer with keys. He opens a 
barred gate. 
 
The UNIFORMED PC takes TOM to a cell and flips the spy hole 
open. 
 
TOM looks in. 
 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 27 

FROM TOM S POV: inside the cell. MUHAMMAD IBHN KHALDUN is 
sitting dead still, looking directly at the spyhole. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          If you with the eyes have any authority, make 
        these fools understand. I can be of great use to 
                                your country... 
 
TOM slams the grill shut. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Release him. 
                                (A phone card.) 
And tell him to ring this number. 
 
                                    UNIFORMED PC 
                  But he s an illegal. And a nutter. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        We don t know what he is. 
 
Hands him the card. Turns away. 
 
                              UNIFORMED PC (Sotto.) 
                                  Bloody spooks. 
 
TOM stops for a moment but does not turn back. 
 
 
MALCOLM goes past the reception. A watchful middle-aged woman 
sits behind the counter on which sits a large Persian cat, 
also watchful. He nods to the woman, he nods to the cat, then 
bounds up the stairs two at a time. On a landing two back-
packing students are passing. He squeezes against the wall to 
let two back-packing students pass. He bounds on up to a 
second landing. He unlocks a door. 
 
 
Spindly nineteen seventies furniture - uncomfortable bright 
yellow wooden arms, green cloth seats and backs, a coffee 
table that is too low. On the coffee table, empty paper cups. 
 
TOM and HARRY are sitting with headphones on, blank 
expressions as they listen. 
 
                  MALCOLM (Emptying his carrier bag.) 
        Tom, double espresso? Harry, latte? Cinnamon not 
                      chocolate, I hope that s right. 
                          (Taking out sandwiches.) 
        With the sandwiches, I went for cream cheese with 
                              chives all round... 
                          (A touch of annoyance.) 
          Good for the soul to be tea boy, now and then. 
 
HARRY waves at him to be quiet. 
 
MALCOLM picks up a set of headphones. 
 
THE CAMERA MOVES TOWARDS THE WALL... AND THROUGH IT INTO... 
 
 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 31 

The hotel room next door. It is similar to the one the 
listeners are sitting in. 
 
ZOE and IBHN sit facing each other over a low coffee table. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          So, so after the... death of your family, you 
          decided to leave Algeria. How did you do that? 
 
IBHN stares at her. He is frosty. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                My life savings. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Meaning... 
 
                                        IBHN 
                        I bribed my way onto a boat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            And the Algerian Secret Service let you go? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                Of course not. 
 
ZOE in difficulties with his manner. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            So how did you get away from your masters? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                      I disguised myself as a camel. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Mr. Khaldun... 
 
                                        IBHN 
              You re worried I m still working for them. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Wouldn t you be in our position? 
 
He looks away. A beat. He looks at her. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        When the extremists killed my wife and... And my 
            daughters... anyway... I decided to leave the 
        nightmare my country had become. I got to France. 
        I sent back fake reports that I was infiltrating a 
        G.A.J cell in Paris. My last report was that I had 
              been blown and they were after me. Then I 
                  disappeared to be reborn in England. 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 32 

 
                                        ZOE 
            So as far as the Algerian Secret Services is 
                                    concerned... 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                    I am dead. 
 
 
HARRY removes one ear piece while continuing to listen with 
the other. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              What do you think? 
 
                                        TOM 
        There is a terrible possiblity. We could be being 
            penetrated by a highly dangerous double agent, 
            operating undercover for God knows whom: the 
        Algerian Secret Service? The militant wing of the 
          Pakistani Intelligence Service? Even an Al Queda 
        offshoot? He could be a disaster for this service. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Or... He simply IS telling the truth. He is 
        offering his skills to a country with which he has 
                                fallen in love. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      That s what we want to believe. 
 
A beat. And HARRY has decided. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Then we will. 
 
 
It s the pub where ZOE met CARLO. She has her washing with 
her. She is looking at the door, around the pub. No CARLO. She 
is annoyed with herself and stands to leave, her drink half 
finished. 
 
 



 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 34 

COLIN is preparing a false degree certificate from Cambridge 
University. SAM is helping. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          Tom, what legend do you want at the University? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ll want to come and go at the campus. Make me a 
                      research graduate of some kind. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        How about John Culper? Derbyshire name. What first 
                          class degree do you want? 
 
                                        TOM 
            History. I m doing a PHD into Gladstone and 
                                      Ireland. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                  Hero of yours? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Never have heroes in this job. 
 
 
                              DANNY (into phone) 
              I want to speak to the office of the Vice 
                        Chancellor of the University. 
 
PHOTOS ON ZOE S DESK: they are of an area of big refuse bins. 
 
ZOE ON THE PHONE: 
 
                                ZOE (into phone) 
          Mr Mulholland? I understand you are contractors 
          for refuse collection at the University of West 
          Midlands campus. We have an employee we wish you 
        to hire... It doesn t quite matter who we are, I 
        have your VAT returns in front of me and there is 
                                    a problem... 
 
MALCOLM S BENCH: 
 
MALCOLM has a box of black magic chocolates. Wearing surgical 
evidence gloves he is carefully removing the chocolates... and 
eats one. 
 
FINAL SEQUENCE: TOM and IBHN having mugshots done for 
documents. 
 
 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 35 

ZOE is back in the pub waiting for CARLO again. She has a book 
open, half upside down. She is watching the door. No CARLO. 
DANNY comes in and sees her, smiles. She looks away fed up. 
DANNY comes up to her. He turns the book the right way up. 
 
She stands and storms out. 
 
                              DANNY (After her.) 
                                    What? What? 
 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE DALE are sitting having coffee. They are 
laughing. She is finishing a funny story. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        But oh no. The President wasn t talking about the 
          Afghan leader at all. He was talking about his 
                                        dog. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            That s ridiculous...! 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    True story. 
 
She looks around at the Grid through the windows. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        Well Tom Quinn. Me CIA, you MI5. And I think the 
            point of these meetings is that we liaise. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Informally. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              Oh informally yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Absolutely. So, Christine Dale of London Station 
          Grosvenor Square, have the CIA anything to tell 
                                        us? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                Our paper clips are bigger than yours? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        I bet. 
 
They smile. 
 




 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 36 

                                      CHRISTINE 
        There is one issue. We ve heard you have acquired 
                        a hot asset. It s Algerian? 
 
TOM was not expecting that. He does not let a flicker of his 
surprise show. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Really? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            We want you to share Muhammad Ibhn Khaldun. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          The name means nothing. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        No? The French told us they were tracking him and 
        he disappeared. They re sure he came to England. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            This will go all the way to Washington, Tom. 
        Islamic agents that can be trusted are gold dust. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I can t help. We don t know of a Khaldun. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You mean you don t want us to share him. Look Tom, 
              we helped you with info on the mullah in 
                                      Birmigham. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Rachid yes, many thanks. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  So... Please? 
 
                                        TOM 
                You want some more coffee or something? 
 
Staring at each other. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Look we could, ah, go for another coffee out of 
                                        here. 
 
TOM stands and leaves. 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 37 

 
                                        TOM 
                                I don t think so. 
 
He stands and opens the door for her. She stands. 
 
                          CHRISTINE (To herself, low) 
                                  Shit oh shit. 
 
 
TOM amongst the to-ing and fro-ing of the busy department. 
And almost at once VICKY WESTBROOK is walking toward him. They 
stop, looking at each other. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Vicky. 
 
She looks at him askance, a sly look. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                        And what are you here for? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                  Are you sick? 
                                    (A beat.) 
            Well if you don t want medicine do you want 
                                      dinner? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Sorry, so much has happened in my life... this is 
                                      wrong... 
 
He turns to go. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                Five mins. Wait for me out the front. 
 
And she is gone. 
 
 
TOM and VICKY have made love and lie in bed. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                  Tom... Quinn. 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 38 

 
                                        TOM 
                              It s my real name. 
 
                                        VICKY 
              Really? Do you usually give a false name to 
                  doctors who dine out in your bedroom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Sometimes. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          There s something weird about you. What is it? 
 
                                        TOM 
        There was a woman and a child that I let down... 
 
                                        VICKY 
      No don t tell me. I d rather think of you as weird 
                          than boring tragic, OK? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        OK. 
 
She turns to him. 
 
 
TOM and HARRY, ZOE and DANNY. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  The C.I.A. know we ve got Khaldun. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          And you have this from... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Christine Dale. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Ah fruitful liaison. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Not very. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Well no way are the Yanks going to steal Khaldun 
                                      from us. 
                                    (To Danny.) 
                    Everything in place in Birmingham? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  We go operational tomorrow morning. 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 39 

 
                                        HARRY 
                          Be aware. Be very aware. 
 
ZOE, DANNY, TOM look at him, serious. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    We will be. 
 
They stand and are making their way out of the room. TOM turns 
and gives HARRY a paper. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Ah a vetting form. 
                                      (Reading) 
                  Vicky Westbrook, Medical Registrar. 
 
                            TOM (Toward blushing.) 
          I just want to know if there s anything against 
          her. I ve just met her. And I mean I don t know 
        whether... I. But if things... I do I want to tell 
                          her what I am, up front. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Tom relax. If my officers must have private lives 
                        they may as well be happy. 
 
He grins and tosses the form into an in tray. 
 
A sheepish TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
 
RACHID and ABU. They are sitting opposite each other on the 
carpet. 
 
RACHID has his arms out. Laid across them is a suicide 
bomber s vest. It is loaded with explosives. 
 
                                        RACHID 
          Think of this as a martyr s shroud. Dressed in 
                          this, he enters Heaven. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                RACHID (cont d) 
        Why not hold it? Don t worry it s not armed. Not 
                                        now. 
 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 40 

Gingerly, with wonder, ABU takes the vest then looks up at 
RACHID, his eyes shining. 
 
 
From IBHN s POV. Past worshippers who are sitting crossed 
legged on the floor, he sees FAZUL AZZAM and MOHAMMED RACHID 
embracing each other and kissing cheeks. Then they both lift 
up the hems of their robes to make big pockets. They begin to 
walk along the rows of seated men, who put money into their 
robes. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
        If they ever were enemies, they seem to have been 
                                      reconciled. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                        Do you think it s genuine? 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
                                How can we tell? 
 
                                    TOM (O.V) 
                          Have you talked to them? 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
                          I m waiting to be asked. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        You must take care. They tortured the only other 
                            agent we got in there. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
            Don t worry. I know the minds, all too well. 
 
GENERAL POV: IBHN KHALDUN sitting at the back. He looks to one 
side. ABU is staring back him. 
 
 
TOM comes into the room and closes the door. 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 43 

 
On the bed there lies a copy of the big Penguin parallel 
Arabic-English edition of The Koran, on the Waterstone bag 
IBHN gave TOM. 
 
TOM sits. A beat. He leans across, lifts The Koran and opens 
it. 
 
 
Cheap, decent furniture. On the wall a picture of Mecca. 
 
IBHN KHALDUN and FAZUL AZZAM are taking tea. It is being 
poured by the young woman. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
            Aminah is studying mathematics for A levels. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                      Indeed? 
 
He looks at her. She is wary. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                  I support the advancement of women. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                God favours it. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                                Some think not. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                          They are sadly mistaken. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
          I try to tell the young of when, by God s will, 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 44 

          Islam was the most advanced civilisation in the 
            world. How Greek mathematics, and the work of 
          Aristotle, were first translated in Italy in the 
                        Twelfth Century, from Arabic. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    The school of Salerno in Sicily. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                          You re an educated man. 
 
                                        IBHN 
              In the sight of God we are all ignorant. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                          Indeed. Thank you Aminah. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                  Yes thank you. 
 
She goes, with a dark look at IBHN. 
 
IBHN notices she does not quite close the door. 
 
FAZUL s attitude changes. His polite good humour fades. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
        Why did it fade? That glorious Islam. Why did we 
          miss the moment when East and West were coming 
                                      together? 
 
                                        IBHN 
            The school of Salerno was closed down by the 
                                catholic church. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
              Yes. We blame the West throughout history. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                              With good reason. 
 
FAZUL is startled: who is this man? 
 
 
                                        FAZUL 
                            Are you one of them? 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  FAZUL (cont d) 
          You say you come from Morocco. I think you are 
                                      Algerian. 
 
IBHN lowers his head and speaks softly. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                    Yes. I am. 
 
IBHN has his eye on the door jamb. He sees AMINAH move - she 
is listening. He looks away. 
 
                                        FAZUL 
        You re one of them. They sent you, those vipers, 
                      those extremists from abroad! 
 
                                        IBHN 
        I have to appeal to your generosity, Fazul Azzam. 
          I am an immigrant in this country without means 
                                        or... 
 
                                        FAZUL 
      Go and talk to your own kind. God tolerates enough 
                            of you in the mosque. 
                                      (Failing.) 
For his purpose. Whatever it maybe. Aminah! Aminah! 
 
A beat then AMINAH comes into the room. 
 
                                  FAZUL (cont d) 
                            Our guest is leaving. 
 
                                IBHN (Standing.) 
                      Thank you for your hospitality. 
 
FAZUL, now feeling very weak, waves him away. 
 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 46 

With AMINAH he goes out of the room, respectfully, into... 
 
 
AMINAH and IBHN, low. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Tell Mullah Rachid I have come to help the angels. 
 
She glares at him. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                          Remember: help the angels. 
                                      (Lower.) 
         I am no more than one who gives warning and good 
                          news to true believers.  
 
He smiles at her, then turns to make for the door. 
 
 
This time CARLO sits in the same place ZOE did, looking at the 
door. He stands, irritated with himself, leaving his drink. He 
goes to the door. 
 
And ZOE comes in. They are suddenly very close. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Oh. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                      Ah. I ve been looking for you. 
 
                            ZOE (smiles, pleased) 
                                    Have you? 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                  Are you alone? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        No I don t drink... You know. On my own. Usually. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                              No. A road to ruin. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                        Were you looking for me too? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      No. Yes. 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 47 

 
A beat. Humour in their eyes. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                              Well. Let s do it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        What? 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                  Have a drink. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Oh yes please. 
 
 
Cut first to ZOE. 
 
She, TOM and DANNY are in tracksuits. They have sports bags, 
squash racquets poke from them. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Azzam is a sick man. I sense he s lost the battle 
            in the mosque. And the girl was very tense. 
                  Something is going to come to a head. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You re sure about her? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    Oh yes. She has the mark on her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Mark? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                            Of Cain. The killer. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        What ll her punishment be? 
 
                                        IBHN 
          In The Koran Cain is forgiven for murdering his 
        brother. God sends him a raven to help him dig the 
        grave. It s a much more civilised version of the 
        story. Strange, in this country where I dreamed so 
        long of being, I think more and more of The Book. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 48 

                                        TOM 
                Will the girl help you get to Rachid? 
 
                                        IBHN 
            She already has. I ve been asked to see him 
                                      tonight. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    So it s on. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                              You have the money? 
 
TOM nods to ZOE. ZOE takes a fat envelope from her sports bag. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    You have to sign for this please. 
 
She gives him a paper and a pen. He rests the paper on the 
desk, signs, as: 
 
                                        IBHN 
            Money from the British treasury, blood from a 
                                        stone? 
 
Smiles all round, he gives ZOE the paper. Warmth towards IBHN. 
 
DANNY takes a small metal case out of his bag, opens it and 
takes out a pen. He holds it out to IBHN. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                              And what is that? 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Transmitter. It sends a scrambled signal via 
          satellite. We can record you and anyone else in a 
                      range of ten feet around you. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                        Ah. 
 
DANNY takes out a match box. Holds it out to IBHN. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                                    And this? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Camera. 
 
DANNY demonstrates. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                      Activate. 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 49 

                  (Slides the matchbox open and shut.) 
          It s digital. The shots can be sent to us via a 
                        secure internet link with... 
 
He takes out a small box of black magic chocolates. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
        Ultra light, one layer of real chocks, beneath... 
            A single purpose device with a net browser. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          This ridiculous James Bondery, do we need it? 
 
                                        TOM 
            We have to gather evidence against Rachid. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                          If he s guilty kill him. 
 
They look at him. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
              Ah. Do we have a clash of cultures here? 
 
He laughs. They don t find it particularly funny. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Use them at your discretion. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                          Ah my discretion, good. 
 
 
Six young men and IBHN sit on benches. Behind them at the back 
sits AMINAH AZZAM, her head covered. MOHAMMED RACHID sits 
before them on the carpet. 
 
                                        RACHID 
      We did not expect to be honoured by a brother from 
                                      Algeria. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        I thank you for your hospitality, Mohammed Rachid. 
 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 50 

A moment. RACHID, fingering his prayer beads. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                      You came through the tunnel. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        RACHID 
               How did you get work at the University? 
 
                                        IBHN 
           And when you and all your followers have gone 
                                  abroad, say...  
 
                  RACHID (Picking up the quotation.) 
         ... Praise be to God who has delivered us from a 
                                sinful nation.  
 
                                        IBHN 
            The job was arranged for me by the British 
                              Intelligence Services. 
 
A silence. All dead still. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                                      Indeed? 
 
                                        IBHN 
      My instructions by our brothers were to infiltrate 
                British Security. It was praise to God 
                        disarmlingly easy to do so. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                You are either a brave man or a fool. 
 
                                        IBHN 
            In the holy cause we serve, aren t all both? 
 
                                        RACHID 
        Muhammad Ibhn Khaldun, I want to believe you, but 
                you will have to prove yourself to me. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          Then let me do so. I bring greetings from our 
          beloved Abu Innan, founder of the G.A.J, working 
        for the creation of an Algerian Islamic Republic. 
 
Another silence. The room is incredibly tense. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                              Abu Innan is dead. 
 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 51 

                                        IBHN 
        You and I know he is alive and well. Forgive me, I 
                will say where but for your ear only. 
 
RACHID gives a little nod. IBHN stands, goes to him and 
whispers in his ear. 
 
VERY CLOSE, IBHN s mouth, RACHID s ear: 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                                  (A whisper.) 
                                        Kanu. 
 
RACHID is startled. 
 
                                        RACHID 
            Did he... Give you something to say to me? 
 
AGAIN, VERY CLOSE: 
 
                              IBHN (A whisper.) 
        The fruit of the Zaqqum tree shall be the sinner s 
                                        food. 
          He takes the envelope of money out of his inner 
                                      pocket. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
            Here are funds from your Algerian brothers. 
 
He puts the envelope of money on the ground before RACHID and 
goes back to his position. 
 
Everyone waits. Then RACHID looks up. 
 
                                        RACHID 
        Praise be to God the compassionate the merciful! 
 
The is a great release of excitement in the room. IBHN has 
passed the test. 
 
                                        ALL 
                                Praise be to God! 
 
 
TOM is sleeping. He wakes. Sits up. IBHN is sitting in the 
chair by the window. 
 
IBHN speaks with an edge of fear. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Don t turn on the light. I ve got away from them 
        for a few hours. A lavatory window. They think I m 
                                      sleeping. 
 
TOM sits up. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Why did you... 
 
                              IBHN (interrupting.) 
        Miss the appointments with you? They watch me all 
        the time, everyone else watches everyone else in 
                                        there. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    In where? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                            In the martyrs group. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        The... 
 
                                        IBHN 
        They are going to do it, Tom. A suicide bombing. 
                  In the heart of the city. Tomorrow. 
 
                                        TOM 
            And they really are capable of doing that? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                      Oh yes. 
 
 
Six young men. Older men are around them. RACHID is sitting 
before them on the floor. No one is moving. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
          Rachid holds a religious discussion group every 
        evening. The same people are there every time. In 
        the centre always sit six young men. There are six 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 54 

          of them. The evening begins easily enough. But  
                      they always end the same way. 
 
We see a different side to RACHID. His face is open and 
kindly, his eyes smiling. He speaks quietly and sincerely, 
love in his voice, as he gives his sermon. 
 
                                        RACHID 
          What is it, to wear an hundred and fity pound 
          American trainer shoes? To put on jackets with a 
          label from Milan in Italy? What is it to drink 
          alco pops, to go clubbing and end up fumbling a 
          slut of an English girl on a canal path in the 
        dawn, your mind wrecked with pills? It is nothing 
          but ash in the mouth, the taste of the death of 
        the soul. For the West sells you the illusion of 
            an earthly paradise, it has to, that is how 
        American Jews on Wall Street make their money. But 
            despite all the pressure of the West s gawdy 
          promises, in your schools, on the television in 
        the cinema, the way your British friends behave, 
        even the advertisements in the streets, you have 
        kept yourselves pure. You have become the West s 
        worst fear: young people they cannot sell to, that 
          they cannot touch. You know the way to the true 
            paradise through a martyr s death. My young 
                              brothers, I envy you. 
 
A silence. 
 
Then he stands and everyone in the room is on their feet, eyes 
blazing, fists shot up into the air in ecstasy on the word 
 death , as they shout a chant in unison. 
 
                                        ALL 
            Death to America and her allies! Death to the 
                      unbelievers, death to the West! 
 
 
The young men are no longer there. 
 
RACHID and two other silent watchful, older men, are with 
IBHN. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
          It was earlier, after the meeting, that he told 
                                        me. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                    What do you think of our youth? 
 



 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 55 

                                        IBHN 
            I think they are God fearing, fine young men. 
 
                                        RACHID 
            They live a difficult life in this country. 
                  Surrounded by the sorcery of America. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        May God relieve them of their burdens and of the 
                      shackles that weight upon them. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                                    Oh He will. 
 
He nods to two of the men. He goes to a corner of the room and 
pulls the carpet back. He lifts a floorboard. He takes out a 
sports bag. He puts it before RACHID. 
 
Who takes out a suicide bomber s vest. There are pockets for 
explosives. 
 
                                RACHID (cont d) 
         We shall put you to the proof and until We know 
        the valiant and the resolute among you, and test 
                      all that is said about you.  
 
                                        IBHN 
                          You want me to do this? 
 
                                        RACHID 
                                    Would you? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                With God s help. 
 
A silence. 
 
                                        RACHID 
        You are too valuable. It is a sad thing to say but 
        the best martyrs are dispensable. We have chosen 
                                      the boy. 
 
 
During the full meeting earlier. 
 
SLOWLY GO CLOSE TO 
 
The face of the young ABU HASSAN. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 




 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 56 

            And he told me. His name is Abu Hassan. He s 
                              sixteen years old. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                            And what s your role? 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
          I am to tell him the target and take him there. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                              What is the target? 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
                I won t be told until the last moment. 
 
 
Still without the light on. IBHN still sits in the chair. TOM 
is still in bed. 
 
They are still for a moment. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Why do they trust you to do that? 
 
                                        IBHN 
        It s a test for me as much as the boy. And it s an 
        old trick. Get a stranger to do the filthy thing. 
                  If it goes wrong he can be blamed. 
 
TOM gets out of bed, goes to drawers and is dressing fast. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Right, I m pulling you out of this operation now. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          Please don t do that. I m thinking of the boy. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I can t allow you to be at such high risk. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        The boy, if he is arrested, think what will happen 
                                      to him. 
 
                                        TOM 
          He won t be dead along with who knows how many 
                                      others. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          I want to talk to him. To persuade him to give 
              himself up. Save himself, save the decent 



 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 57 

          worshippers at the mosque from the shadow of this 
                                terrible thing. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Do you believe there is any possibility of that? 
 
IBHN, rock solid. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          Yes. If we don t believe humanity can triumph, 
                          what meaning do we have? 
 
                  TOM (A cynical edge in his voice.) 
                                      Humanity. 
                                    (A beat.) 
                  Will they let you be alone with him? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                Only at the end. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      The end. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        The last half hour, when I have to take him to the 
                                  chosen place. 
 
TOM is appalled. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  No. No way. I cannot sanction that. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                        No. 
 
He stands. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                                    I understand. 
 
Suddenly IBHN hits TOM expertly with the edge of his hand 
between his nose and his upper lip. TOM slumps to the ground, 
as IBHN runs out of the door... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Khaldun! 
 
 
TOM, DANNY, ZOE. Close to them. They are in urgent discussion. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      We ll have to go in mob-handed. 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 58 

 
                                        DANNY 
              Harry will block that, you know he will. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We need some kind of cover story. So we can go 
                                  there legally. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Right. 
 
He s got no idea. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  How about... 
 
She hesitates. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
 
HARRY, RUTH, SAM. 
 
The table is covered with a big plan of Birmingham City 
Centre. Mugs of coffee. They are very tense. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The raid will start... thirty minutes from now. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        I ve been looking forward to action in this job, 
                                        goody. 
 
HARRY turns on her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
           Goody?  What s  goody  about it? You ve been at 
        GCHQ too long. This job isn t all about sneaking 
      on people with microphones and CCTV cameras - then 
                sending others in to do the dirty work! 
 
A nasty little silence. 
 
There are tears in Ruth s eyes. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      I meant... 
 



 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 59 

                                        HARRY 
                                      Did you. 
 
Very frosty between them. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                                      Apology. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      Accepted. 
 
                        HARRY (Looks at his watch.) 
                              Twenty-nine minutes. 
 
 
RACHID and other men. 
 
TOM and police coming into the room. 
 
                                        TOM 
          No one leaves this room. No one makes a phone 
                                        call. 
 
                                        RACHID 
            Ah the gentleman from immigration, are you a 
                                      gentleman? 
 
TOM nods to a plain clothes officer. 
 
                                      OFFICER 
            Mohammed Rachid I am arresting you under the 
            Charity Commission Act of 1967. You are under 
                  suspicion of keeping false records. 
 
RACHID is genuinely bewildered. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                              Charity Commission? 
 
                            TOM (Low to Rachid.) 
        See? There are other ways of making people dead. 
                                      (Louder.) 
          We have a warrant to search for hidden account 
                                        books. 
 
A warrant is shown to RACHID and then withdrawn. 
 
While this is being done TOM goes to the corner of the room, 
pulling on latex gloves. Officers rip the corner of carpet up, 
lift the floorboards and find the sports bag. 
 



 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 60 

TOM takes out four suicide bomber s vests. He goes to RACHID 
and throws them down in front of him. 
 
                                        RACHID 
                      I wish to speak to my lawyer. 
 
TWO CLOSE-UPS: 
 
A hard glint in RACHID s eye. 
 
TOM looking at him, his eyes hard too. 
 
He leans forward to RACHID. He speaks very softly, very close 
to his face. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Where is the boy martyr? Where is Ibhn Khaldun? 
 
A faint smile on RACHID s lips. He says nothing. TOM backs 
away and is storming out of the room. 
 
 
There are camp beds, a small gas campfire stove for cooking. 
Three of the men whom we saw with RACHID in the mosque, IBHN 
and ABU HASSAN are looking at one of the men who is taking a 
call on a mobile phone. He finishes. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
                          Abu, please step outside. 
 
He nods to one of the men. He stands and goes outside with ABU 
HASSAN. 
 
                                1ST MAN (cont d) 
          The mosque has been raided. Mohammed Rachid has 
                                  been arrested. 
 
A moment. 
 
The 2nd man in the room slips an automatic pistol out and 
holds it on his lap. 
 
                                1ST MAN (cont d) 
                      We must send the martyr now. 
 
                IBHN (Aware above all of the pistol.) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
                                I will take him. 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 61 

                                        IBHN 
                        That is to be my privilege. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
                  It was. Before someone betrayed us. 
 
He stands and goes out of the room. 
 
The 2nd man does not take his eyes off IBHN KHALDUN. 
 
 
TOM and FAZUL AZZAM. AZZAM is in shock. 
 
                                        AZZAM 
          And in this country? What corrodes the minds of 
        the young, Mr. Anderson? How can they think this 
                            is a path to paradise? 
 
                                        TOM 
        We have no time, Mr Azzam. Do you know where they 
                            are keeping the boy? 
 
                                        AZZAM 
                                        No. 
                        (A terrible realisation.) 
                                  No, I don t. 
 
He points to the door, which is closed. TOM does not 
understand at once then realises. He stands quietly, goes to 
the door and pulls it open quickly. 
 
AMINAH has been listening at the door. For a second TOM and 
AMINAH stare at each other. 
 
                                  AZZAM (cont d) 
                          Pull her in pull her in! 
 
TOM grabs her arm and pulls her into the room. 
 
                        AMINAH (Birmingham accent.) 
                              Get off pig, pig! 
 
                                        TOM 
        Tell me where they have the boy for martyrdom. You 
                                have to tell me. 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 62 

 
AMINAH spits in his face. 
 
AZZAM stands in a fury, leaning on his stick. 
 
                                        AZZAM 
            Please leave us for a moment, Mr. Anderson. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Yes of course. 
 
 
IBHN and the armed 2nd Man sit dead still. Then the other two 
men come in with ABU HASSAN. He is wearing a raincoat. It s 
open. The bomber s vest can be seen beneath it. 1ST MAN begins 
to fasten the vest. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
        Be strong, my boy, in this your first battle. God 
                        is in every move you make. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                  God is great! 
 
                                  THE THREE MEN 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 63 

                        God is great! God is great! 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    Death to America and her allies! 
 
                                        ALL 
            Death to America and her allies! Death to the 
                      unbelievers, death to the West! 
 
And the 2nd man s concentration wavers for a second, long 
enough for IBHN to fly at him, smashing him across the throat. 
He turns and fires at the 1st man who goes down screaming, the 
3rd man runs out. 
 
ABU HASSAN stares at him frozen. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                              Martyr of God! Come! 
 
He takes his hand. 
 
ABU begins to struggle. He is about to cry out. IBHN puts his 
hand over the boy s mouth. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
            No no, you don t understand, these are your 
                                enemies. Abu Abu! 
 
ABU stops struggling. IBHN takes his hand from ABU s mouth. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
        Now be still. And I will take this terrible thing 
                                    from you. 
 
ABU stares at him and tries to scamper back. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                                    Be still! 
 
ABU struggles from IBHN s grasp and manages to get away, 
running out of the door. IBHN is not quite able to grab him, 
but stands to follow him. 
 
As IBHN goes to leave, 3rd man comes back and blocks the 
doorway. IBHN makes a move for him and a struggle ensues... 
 
 
TOM comes through the pods. His face is burnt. 
 
Everyone stops working. ZOE is near tears. She goes to kiss 
his cheek. He winces, a grin. 
 
HARRY comes forward and touches his arm. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Tom... 
 
 
CLOSE UP: HARRY has a British passport in his hands. He opens 
it. IBHN s photograph and name are inside. 
 
General POV. TOM and HARRY. They are deeply upset. HARRY puts 
the passport into a desk drawer. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Shouldn t that be shredded? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Officially. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I couldn t control him. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            We re all to blame. We didn t realise... The 
                      bravery, integrity of the man. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Though thanks to him the danger at the mosque is 
        over. Rachid is being deported. Disgraced before 
              the community for fiddling charity funds. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        But I feel I ve lost someone who could have become 
                                      a friend. 
 
                                        HARRY 


 69                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 70 

        Join me at the bottom of a whiskey bottle, or do 
          you have other medical consolations available? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Meaning... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The female doctor you wanted vetting? The check 
          came through. Seven parking tickets otherwise 
                                  she s clean. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Vicky. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Yes. 
 
HARRY is studying him, amused. TOM looks away. 
 
