 
Four balaclava d men - all four burst out of the van and rush 
up towards the house. 
 
 
Framed pictures of HARRY and his family on a table - sent 
smashing to the floor as JJ knocks the whole thing over. 
DENTON grabs JJ - places his hand on his chest. 
 
                        DENTON (Holds up stopwatch) 
          Three minutes the alarm s all shot. Two minutes 
        the police will be here. You hear me say we done, 
                      we are done. Understand. JJ? 
 
                                          JJ 
                                Yeah man. Sweet. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                  Move! Billy, Kyle. Load up the van. 
 
 
BILLY and KYLE rush over and grab TV. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                      Come on. Move. Sixty seconds. 
 
Meanwhile we hear the unmistakable ambiance of Prime Ministers 
questions. 
 
                                  RADIO V/O  
         This escalation in gun-related crime doesn t just 
        impact on those whose lives are changed forever by 
                                    a bullet ... 
 




 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 2 

CLOSE ON: Denton with his stopwatch and a gun tucked into his 
belt. DENTON steps on broken glass of framed photo of HARRY 
and his family. 
 
 
HARRY stuck in traffic. He s exhausted. Hitting his horn. 
 
                                      RADIO V/O 
         It is ruining the chances of the young people of 
          this country from finding a true vocation. Guns 
        offer a spurious glamour, promising a short route 
      to riches. When in fact it is a short route to the 
                                      grave...  
 
HARRY sighs, goes to get something from the back seat. Double 
take. It ain t there! 
 
                        HARRY (Checking his watch) 
                                    Damn. DAMN! 
 
 
JJ pulling drawers out as fast as he can - frantically 
searching for something of value. Finding nothing he starts 
pulling everything off the shelves. 
 
JJ continues ripping everything off shelves - comes to a 
locker that won t open. This stumps JJ. 
 
                              DENTON (V.O. RADIO) 
                                Ninety seconds. 
 
JJ struggles with the door to the locker, then CLICK - it 
opens 
 
 
JJ rifling through the contents of the locker. 
 
JJ S POV: Inside locker. THE CASE: high tech, LCD locks etc. 
 
 
DENTON is stunned to see van drive out. 
 
                                KYLE (VO RADIO) 
                            He s back. D? Get out! 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                        JJ! 
 
Getting no response DENTON looks to doorway of study. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT D) 
                          JJ! Get out. Move. Move. 
 
DENTON races into study to see JJ still trying to open case. 
DENTON grabs JJ hits him across the face - 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Agghh! 
 
A small amount of blood from his nose drips onto the carpet. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                        The owner, man. He s back! 
 
IN BG - Sound of car door shutting. 
 
DENTON suddenly freezes - places his finger to his lips and 
with his free hand pulls out a gun and points at the open 
doorway. 
 
 
HARRY s first step greeted by sound of broken glass, as is his 
second step. Slowly he strides in. 
 
 
DENTON keeps his gun trained on doorway - JJ looks for a way 
out and sees window - 
 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 4 

CLOSE ON: A simple screw bolt latch. 
 
 
HARRY observes the dark hallway and open study doorway. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ as gently as he can begins to unscrew bolt. 
DENTON prepares blast his way out. 
 
 
HARRY now only feet away from the open doorway - stops with 
his back tight against the wall - his shoulder pressing up 
against door frame. HARRY remains still for a beat - then in 
one swift movement snaps his head around into DOORWAY - 
 
HARRY S POV: Trashed, empty study. Open doorway and most 
importantly of all - his secret locker is EMPTY. 
 
HARRY s mobile rings - HARRY lets it ring. 
 
CLOSE ON: HARRY. Fuck a duck! 
 
TITLES 
 
 
DANNY and RUTH at their desks working as TOM and ZOE step out 
of pods both armed with documents. 
 
SAM the first to greet them. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  It s ringing but he s not answering. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Keep trying. 
 
                                  ZOE (to Tom) 
                                      Shall I? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Go for it. 
 
                                    ZOE (loud) 
        Everyone? Harry s stuck in traffic. On his way in. 
                      We need to play some catch-up. 
 
                              TOM (To the room) 




 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 5 

        3am this morning, officers working for MI6 woke up 
                      Harry requiring an urgent meet. 
 
DIO OVER: TOM drags out big screen - COLIN walks out from the 
computer room. DANNY and RUTH immediately stop working. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                    Here s why. 
 
ON SCREEN: Fighter Jet blasts through sky launching a missile 
which then hits building - Then nothing. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                  What s the first thing you notice? 
 
Pan across blank faces. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                This is a test right. A trick question. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                              It didn t go off. 
 
TOM hands out documents. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The missile punched its way through numerous 
            concrete walls, then once in the heart of the 
              building it detonated, emitting an electro 
                                magnetic pulse. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  EMP. Kills technology, not people. 
 
                        RUTH (Realising potential) 
          No live TV images of mass civilian slaughter. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Just a few dead computers. 
 
                                        TOM 
        If you re looking to start a war, and need public 
            sympathy, this has to be the weapon of choice. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        And it s sparked a new arms race. Led by this man 
        - Henri Durand. French Military Scientist with an 
                    ego the size of the Eifel Tower. 
 
 




 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 6 

Focus on HARRY. His house and career lie strewn around him in 
tatters. He has to do something, and fast. He begins to search 
for clues. Find anything that can help him. 
 
 
The team. Silent. Intrigued. 
 
ON SCREEN: A SERIES of COVERT PHOTOS of HENRI DURAND. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Durand doesn t exactly play by the rules. In the 
          eighties he was linked to the development of the 
            Exocet Missile. The same one which was then 
                        peddled to the Argentinians. 
 
                                        TOM 
            MI6 have been monitoring his activities ever 
                                        since. 
 
                                RUTH (Surprised) 
                            Is that -BEAT- legal? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        A few months ago he and his ego suddenly resigned 
          from their post in the French Military. He took 
                          the technology with him. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Durand s been busy using EMP technology to develop 
            a whole new programme with private financial 
          backing. He s created an air burst missile that 
        detonates at a thousand feet - sending out an EMP 
        wave well over a square mile. A few of those could 
                        bring London to its knees. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            Lights out. Game over. 
 
                                        TOM 
              He s called this new programme Firestorm. 
 
ON SCREEN: FRANK HASTINGS. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        The backer s name is Frank Hastings. Middle weight 
                                  arms dealer. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          The guy we ran a low grade op on a while back? 
 
                                    TOM (nods) 



 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 7 

          Hastings has bought a slice of Durand. Both men 
        are looking to cash in on Firestorm. We have been 
          tasked to procure the program before it s sold. 
 
BOOM! TOM lets this one sit on the room. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              You mean steal it? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Yes. British ownership is our best defence. Cold 
              war rhetoric I know, but this is the job. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Well if that isn t illegal -BEAT- it s very, very 
                                      naughty. 
 
 
HARRY searching every inch of room. 
 
Finding nothing he slumps down behind his desk - slams his 
fist down hard. He then feels something. Slowly he raises his 
hand up to see... 
 
CLOSE ON: Blood smeared on palm. 
 
 
TOM looking up at on-screen graphics. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          The sale of Firestorm could raise ample cash to 
          buy three small African countries with enough 
                    change left over to save the NHS. 
 
DANNY - busy taking notes - writes a big question mark. 
 
                                        TOM 
        But there s only one copy, and this copy can only 
                        be accessed via his laptop. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Whose laptop? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Durand s. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Why haven t MI6 tried to get hold of Firestorm 
                                      before? 
 



 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 8 

                                        TOM 
        No opportunity. Durand s careful. When the laptop 
          isn t handcuffed to his wrist, it s locked in a 
                                        safe. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              So where s he now? 
 
                                        TOM 
            MI6 tracked him here from Paris last night. 
 
ON SCREEN: HASTINGS  offices. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Hastings offices. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Intel indicates he and Hastings will sell 
                  Firestorm within forty eight hours. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  Who s buying? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It s tricky. We re scanning the usual suspects. 
        Iran, Iraq, Libya. Checking all the embassies for 
                business travellers and hidden guests. 
 
A moment of quite consideration. 
 
                                        TOM 
              One other thing. We must not get caught. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It s a diplomatic tinderbox. Nothing that happens 
                          can link us to Firestorm. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            So we set someone up? 
 
                                TOM (rephrasing) 
        We task an agent that s completely deniable. One 
        that has never worked for any government agency. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  A clean skin. 
 
                                        TOM 
            And we ve got to do all this with the French 
        watching us. The DGSE know Durand is here. They ve 
        sent one of their operatives over, requesting our 
                                      assistance. 
 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 9 

DANNY looks stunned. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Well I don t know about you lot, but I m looking 
                                forward to this. 
 
She smiles brightly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Just a feeling. 
 
 
ON SCREEN: Photo of JEAN-LUC. Devastatingly handsome. 
SAM walks over, sees photo. 
 
                                    SAM (O.C.) 
                                        Wow! 
                                        (beat) 
          Someone called Jean-Luc s in the lobby, by the 
                                        way. 
 
DANNY snaps round to see SAM drawling over photo. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Keep him down there for as long as you can. 
 
                    SAM (realising it s man in photo) 
                        Keep him down where? Sorry. 
 
DANNY. Unimpressed. SAM makes for pod. 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 10 

                                        DANNY 
          I didn t think working with the French was our 
                                        thing. 
 
                                  ZOE (smiling) 
            Really? I think it could be a very, very good 
                                        idea. 
 
                              SAM (calling back) 
                                I saw him first. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  I out-rank you. 
 
Pod closes. We lip-read SAM s muffled response. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Bitch. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Actually Danny, he ll be with you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          What? I don t want him. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        What do the French government know about all this? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Nothing about Firestorm. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I ll just stick him on static obs with an ash tray 
                            and a pot of coffee. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Jean-Luc can t get wind of us running a secret 
                                      operation. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Let s go through criminal record files. If someone 
          with form for burglary happened to be caught in 
            the middle of this, we can deny involvement. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                What if they start spilling the beans? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      They d have to prove it first. 
                                      (A beat)  
        The key to procuring Firestorm is Durand s laptop. 
 



 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 11 

                                        ZOE 
          Firestorm s like a jigsaw. It s encrypted on the 
          web in numerous sites. The only way to complete 
        the jigsaw is with a series of codes, which must 
                    be inputted on Durand s computer. 
 
                                        TOM 
            MI6 have tried to access the laptop before. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Tried and failed. They did however discover the 
              access codes via surveillance recordings. 
 
TOM looks across the faces of his team. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        And where are these codes? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It s alright. Harry s got them in his briefcase. 
 
Door swings open - 
 
CLOSE ON: HARRY. Stressed. No briefcase. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: HARRY s case. 
 
DENTON, BILLY and KYLE peer down at it. Room is full of 
stereos, DVD players, TVs. 
 
                                        BILLY 
                Hey D, maybe it s full of bling bling. 
 
                                        KYLE 
          Whatever it is, it s not meant for the likes of 
                                        us. 
 
KYLE heads for JJs s room. 
 
 
Dejected JJ blankly stares at a book in his hand - he sits 
behind a flash looking computer monitor - Into this enters 
KYLE. He sits down by JJ. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                              Oi. Moby Dickhead. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                Leave me alone. 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 12 

                                        KYLE 
                              Show me the magic. 
 
                                          JJ 
                              Ain t in the mood. 
 
KYLE randomly flicks through a copy of Moby Dick. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                    Come on. For me. Here, this page. 
 
JJ gazes at page and waits - KYLE watches on as suddenly JJ s 
fingers comes alive. He begins typing at speed. KYLE looks at 
open book then checks it with words JJ is typing away 
furiously on his computer. Words. Just words, no capitals, no 
paragraphs, just words. 
 
                                  KYLE (CONT'D) 
      J. I m telling you. You re a freak. You need to be 
                                    locked up. 
 
Watching JJ makes KYLE smile every time. JJ shrugs. 
 
                                          JJ 
        It s easy. Like a photo. See it once. Don t even 
                        have to know what it means. 
                                        (beat) 
                      D was right man. I messed up. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                                        How? 
 
                                          JJ 
          He told me. Told us to get out. But I saw that 
                                        case. 
 
                                        KYLE 
        If you see something you want, take it. Ain t no 
                        one gonna  give it to you. 
 
                                          JJ 
                          Maybe it s full of cash. 
 
JJ leaps up to go - Kyle stops him. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                                      Exactly. 
                              (almost a whisper) 
                          And who made that happen?  
                              (Almost a whisper) 
          I ain t good at much, don t know the tings you 
        know. But I do know this. Ain t no one coming to 
                          get us. Know wot I mean? 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 13 

 
                                          JJ 
                                What you sayin? 
 
                                        KYLE 
        D s holding you back. He s using you. Keepin  you 
                                        here. 
 
                                          JJ 
          Nah, man! Shouldn t say that shit to me, Kyle. 
                          He s looking out for me. 
 
                                        KYLE 
          I ain t never gonna get out of this place. But 
          you, you got somethin  special breadrin . You 
                                  could get out. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                              What did you say? 
 
KYLE snaps round. Sees DENTON standing in doorway. KYLE is 
clearly scared. 
 
                                          JJ 
                              We just rappin D. 
 
DENTON sees the book and sees the words, then grabs KYLE and 
puts him in head lock - although this is playful, it hurts. 
 
                                        DENTON 
        Don t listen to this fool bro. Look at him, look 
          at his rags. You see any bling bling! No. Who s 
              wearing the cloth, who s wearing the bling? 
 
                                          JJ 
                                    You are, D. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                  That s right. 
 
DENTON releases KYLE, who slumps to the floor in agony. 
 
                          DENTON (CONT D) (to JJ) 
                      So go open that case for me. 
 
JJ exits room. DENTON looks down hard at KYLE. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT'D) 
            And don t ever say shit to my brother again. 
                        (Places his hand on his gun) 
                                        Ever. 
 



 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 14 

KYLE nods, close to tears, in pain, trying to hide it. 
 
 
HARRY can t sit down, anxious. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Maybe it was just a random robbery. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I have a state of the art alarm system. A random 
                  burglar wouldn t know where to start. 
 
No-one looks convinced. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        I found some traces of blood. It s being analysed 
                                        now. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        You have to tell them. Six will have copies of the 
                          codes and we need them. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Harry, it s our duty as much yours to report this. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      I know. 
 
HARRY leaves the room. A beat. He returns. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
          But I would ask a few hours to try and save my 
                        career. I ll be in my office. 
 
HARRY goes. Team ponder their options. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Rule number one. Never ever take your work home 
                                    with you. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Rule number two, report any officer that does, 
          especially if they then lose it. We could all be 
                          implicated in a cover-up. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Harry wouldn t be the only one to lose his job. 
 
ZOE goes to grab phone. TOM clamps his hand down on hers. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I realise the implications of this. But he asked 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 15 

              for a few hours. Let s see he gets them. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Would he do the same for us? 
 
A stand off. ZOE looks to Danny who stays silent, affirmation 
of TOM s intention. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Our only concern should be losing momentum on this 
      op which could mean losing any chance of procuring 
          Firestorm. And that won t be good for any of our 
                                      careers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  I still think - 
 
                              TOM (ignoring Zoe) 
          The Frenchman wants eyes on Durand. Danny, give 
        him whatever he needs. Run the op as normal. Just 
                    keep him out of this building    
                              (To Zoe and Ruth) 
        And find a way to get a clean skin into that one. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          I didn t sign up for this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Yes you did. I saw the paperwork. 
 
TOM strides out. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JEAN-LUC has the very latest techno gadgets - palm 
top, laptop, GPRS phone - and it all looks as cool as fuck. 
HARRY, TOM and DANNY listening. 
 
ZOE and RUTH look appreciatively at JEAN-LUC as he talks... 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        Durand was our top weapons development scientist. 
          Leaving at such a crucial time obviously raised 
                                      suspicions. 
 
HARRY doing his level best to stay focused. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (CONT D) 
        Anything Durand was working on is the property of 
              the Government of the French Republic. We 
                      appreciate your help. Very much. 
 
JEAN-LUC locks into DANNY - measures him up. 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 16 

 
                                        DANNY 
                      How long will Durand be here? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
            48 hours. We simply require some low level 
              observation and of course the phone taps we 
                                      requested. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I m reliably informed that we ll have those by 
                                      midday. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          I don t think you understand. Durand thinks he s 
            safe here. If he has stolen technology from 
        France, this is where he ll probably sell it. That 
          is why we requested the phone taps in advance. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I realise that, but we have certain procedures we 
                                  must follow. 
 
JEAN-LUC smells a rat. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
        Danny heads up our surveillance section. He s at 
                                  your disposal. 
 
HARRY heads towards his office. SAM enters quickly, handing an 
unimpressed JEAN-LUC a cup of coffee. 
 
                        SAM (poor French, flirting) 
                        Attention, c est tres chaud. 
 
JEAN-LUC immediately senses DANNY s displeasure at SAM s 
obvious flirtations. 
 
                                DANNY (standing) 
        Durand s gone straight to Hastings  offices. I ve 
                  got a surveillance unit ... enroute. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                                OK. Sam? Merci. 
 
                            DANNY (perfect accent) 
                                      On y va? 
 
DANNY stands and meets JEAN-LUC s eye. JEAN-LUC smiles 
charmingly at him as he walks past. DANNY brews quietly. 
 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 17 

HARRY and TOM watch CCTV footage on his monitor. CLOSE ON: 
Masked face of JJ - screen goes blank. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Why did you take the case home? 
 
                                        HARRY 
      It was three in the morning. I was closer to home. 
 
                            TOM (re team on Grid) 
      At some point, one of them will report this. Their 
                          jobs are on the line too. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Either way, all of our jobs are on the line. If 
        our agent s caught, and the French find out, this 
                Government will hang us all out to dry. 
 
HARRY and TOM both contemplate the enormity. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What else was in the case, Harry? 
 
CLOSE ON: HARRY. Wishing TOM hadn t asked. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ. File hits him in the face - 
 
                                        DENTON 
            Worthless. Like you! See what happens when you 
        don t listen. I nearly shot some posh geezer for 
                                        this! 
 
Spread around JJ are files, photos. DENTON stands up and 
empties rest of the case. A variety of objects fall out. Among 
them an old tatty looking mobile phone. 
 
DENTON picks up a file, sees the covert photos. Begins to 
realise something. 
 
                                        BILLY 
                                  What is it D? 
 
                            DENTON (cogs turning) 
                                      Shut up! 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ picks up a file - on it is written FIRESTORM and 
a list of nine twelve digit numbers - 
 
DENTON sees JJ s eyes scanning... rips the file away. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT D) 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 18 

                  Stop that Uri Geller shit right now! 
 
DENTON looks around floor at all the files. The photos. 
 
                                        BILLY 
                      So, D? What do we do with it? 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                      Burn it. 
 
 
On screen, a pair of hands strip down the same mobile phone we 
saw at DENTON s, to reveal four bullets then rebuild it. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
          This little gadget was among other samples of 
        Hastings  products. MI6 included it in the Durand 
                                        file. 
 
CLOSE ON: Monitor - hand aims mobile, then begins to dial as 
BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! - it shoots. 
 
                          HARRY (CONT'D) (shrugs) 
        With any luck they ll try and make a call with it. 
 
A look from TOM. Phone rings - HARRY answers. Good news. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                                      Excellent. 
                                    (hangs up) 
                    They ve matched the blood stain. 
 
HARRY switches on monitor, as JJ S arrest photo and criminal 
record download. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
        Jason James Franks. Fourteen years old. Nickname 
                                        JJ. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Got an address? 
 
                          HARRY (Points on screen) 
          Just for his older brother. Denton Franks. His 
        mother handed them over to care when he was four. 
        JJ recently broke the rules of his probation and 
                  there s a warrant out for his arrest. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  If he s there, I ll call the plods. 
 



 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 19 

HARRY is immersed in JJ s file. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        No. Just get the case back. 
 
 
ZOE and RUTH sit behind desk piled with documents, both 
working through the files and on computers. Names and faces of 
men and women - file after file and all are discarded. 
 
In the background, HARRY and TOM exit HARRY s office. TOM 
heads for the pods; HARRY walks towards ZOE and RUTH. 
 
ZOE begins to tire from her search. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Any more ex-cons? I ve run out of candidates. 
 
RUTH shakes her head. HARRY approaches. 
 
                          ZOE (CONT D) (to Harry) 
      If we do manage to find someone suitable for this, 
                          what about training them? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We ll tackle that when we have our clean skin. 
 
                                  ZOE (pointed) 
        Harry, it s all pointless unless we find the codes 
          that were stolen. The one s that were in your 
                                      briefcase? 
 
HARRY avoids ZOE s eye. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        If we run this agent clean, it means no pieces of 
                                paper, no proof. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        That s a lot of numbers to remember. In the field 
                  and under stress. Could you do that? 
 
CLOSE ON: HARRY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              I want a list of agents within the hour. 
 
HARRY strides off. 
 
 



 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 20 

CLOSE ON: JJ sees mobile under couch. 
 
                                        BILLY 
          You in Billy BIG shit man. None of dis would be 
              happening if you had just left that case. 
 
JJ inspects phone - 
 
                                        KYLE 
                                  Leave it out. 
 
                                        BILLY 
          I m tellin yuh. Gonna get a beating J. Ain t no 
                                        doubt. 
 
JJ notices lever on bottom of mobile clicks it - red indicator 
comes on his phone - 
 
                                          JJ 
                                Hey, this works. 
 
Presses number one. We hear a tone but no gun fire. JJ presses 
number two. Same thing. Number three. Same thing. Then the 
number four - 
 
Mobile jars out of his hand. Moment of silence. JJ and BILLY 
look at each other in stunned silence - unsure of what just 
happened until - 
 
CLOSE ON: KYLE - blood spurting out of hole in his neck. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                        Oh god. Oh god. Help me... 
 
KYLE sits on sofa, blood pouring out of the wound in his neck 
- 
 
                                  JJ (shouting) 
                                    Denton! D! 
 
                        BILLY (re: mobile phone gun) 
                        What the hell is that, man? 
 
JJ looks at smoking mobile - drops it in horror like a hand 
grenade. DENTON rushes in, stands over KYLE. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                      Please man, don t let me die... 
 
                                        DENTON 
        You re gonna be cool. I ll take you to hospital. 
 



 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 21 

DENTON tries in vain to stop the bleeding. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      We gotta call an ambulance, D! 
 
                                        DENTON 
        No! No. Do that and we all in shit. I ll drop him 
                              off, he can walk in. 
 
                                          JJ 
                            Walk in? Look at him. 
 
                                        DENTON 
        Yeah. Do that. Do that JJ. Look hard. Cos you the 
                                  cause of this. 
 
DENTON and BILLY pull KYLE to his feet. 
 
                                        KYLE 
                          Please don t let me die. 
 
DENTON pulls off the sofa cover, soaked in blood - folding it 
into a ball as BILLY helps KYLE to his feet. 
 
                                        DENTON 
        Lock the doors and give me that phone. If anyone 
          calls, do not answer it. Get me. JJ you get me? 
 
On JJ. Freeze-frame - 
 
 
ZOE gets up and goes to the fax machine. HARRY spots her 
isolation and hoves up behind her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Did you want a cup of tea, at all? 
 
ZOE can t look him in the eye and struggles to retain her 
composure. 
 
                      ZOE (through clenched teeth) 
                              That sounds lovely. 
 
HARRY nods. Unsure What to do next. Remembers. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Milk? 
 
ZOE is now officially freaked out. She nods. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    One sugar. 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 22 

 
                                        HARRY 
                                Coming right up. 
 
HARRY turns and leaves ZOE at the fax machine. 
 
 
HARRY comes into his office, and presses the button on his 
speakerphone. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Tea. Milk, one sugar. 
 
HARRY sighs and sits back in his chair. 
 
 
RUTH and MALCOLM join ZOE at the fax machine. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        You alright? You look sick. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Harry just asked me if I wanted a cup of tea. 
 
RUTH grimaces, empathising. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      Did he. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            I know. I mean, when was the last time he did 
                                        that? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          September 18th 1995, for the Minister of Defence 
              Procurement. I think he wanted something. 
 
ZOE and RUTH look at each other. They know this is all about 
the briefcase. 
 
                                        RUTH 
              Are you going to say anything? About the 
                                      briefcase? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Let s just see if we find this clean skin. 
 
 




 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 23 

JEAN-LUC and DANNY sit behind cameras, surrounded by 
surveillance monitors. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                          I love a Scottish accent. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Is that right. 
 
JEAN-LUC gets the message, smiles. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        Tell me. How many eyes do you have? You have the 
                                  target ringed? 
 
DANNY remains silent. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (CONT D) 
        If he moves, I assume you will picket the route, 
                            run parallel obs. Yes? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      I have what we have available. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                      And what exactly is available? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Officers that aren t now following four suspected 
                              Al-Qaeda terrorists. 
 
JEAN-LUC ponders DANNY s reluctance to answer. Lights up. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT'D) 
        I d really appreciate it if you wouldn t do that. 
 
DANNY takes over camera. 
 
                        JEAN-LUC (holds up cigarette) 
            And I d appreciate it if you would call your 
                  superiors, to chase the phone taps? 
 
 
ZOE is slumped next to COLIN. HARRY walks in, carrying a cup 
of tea. He puts it on the desk in front of ZOE. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Milk. No sugar. 
 
                                    ZOE (cold) 
                                  Right. Thanks. 
 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 24 

COLIN looks astonished. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            So, found anyone yet? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It would be great if in the future we had a file 
                      marked potential clean skins. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                That s a no then. 
 
COLIN interrupts to save ZOE from a mauling. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        I tell you, Durand and Hastings have some set-up. 
            Wireless microwave CCTV systems, scramblers, 
            motion sensors and they re all run off one IT 
          system. This is one of the most heavily guarded 
          civilian sites in the UK. Set the alarm off, the 
                        whole building shuts down. 
 
He sees ZOE get even more depressed at this. 
 
                                HARRY (to COLIN) 
            I understand you have news on my cat burglar? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  Not news exactly. That s the thing. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    The thing? 
 
                                        COLIN 
          We installed a high level personalised security 
        system on your house. One I devised myself. I ve 
            run every diagnostic in existence and I have 
          absolutely no clue how that kid hacked into it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Great. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          You need twenty different permeations of five 
            different codes to get access. The only way is 
          with a highly sophisticated code breaker. And 
        that s hardly something you can pick up at Dixons. 
 
HARRY looks across at ZOE, fruitlessly searching for someone 
capable of stealing Firestorm. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Could he have built it himself? 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 25 

 
                                        COLIN 
        He could - but that would make him one very smart 
                                      cookie. 
 
On HARRY, thinking. 
 
 
TOM s mobile rings.. Split screen INTERPLAY with CHRISTINE. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          We still on for tonight? 
 
TOM. He d forgotten. Shit. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Sounds busy? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        The Chinese government s official plane requested 
        a fuel stopover in Heathrow. But then you already 
                                    know that. 
 
                                    TOM (lying) 
                        I d be lying if I said no. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I ve booked the opera. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          The Opera? That s for... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Tourists, I know. We could just do a Chinese if 
                                    you want. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      No. Opera s good. What is it? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            A lot of really big boned people singing very 
                                      loudly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I meant... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                It s Tosca... Meet you there at seven? 
 
Two kids with first date nerves, excited and nervous. 
 
                                    TOM (happy) 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 26 

                                        Seven. 
 
On TOM, immediately hangs up and calls... 
 
INTERPLAY: RUTH (on the Grid) and TOM. 
 
                            RUTH (answering phone) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The Chinese president s official plane has 
            requested a stopover. Can you get a passenger 
                                        list? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Who am I looking for? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Not sure. 
 
TOM hangs up and looks out at the council estate. 
 
 
JJ, still waiting for news on KYLE, looks up as the top chubb 
lock on the front door slowly opens. Frozen to his spot, JJ 
watches as bottom lock slowly opens - then some more clicking 
and the door opens to reveal: 
 
TOM standing in doorway - JJ frozen to the spot. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Jason James Franks. 
 
TOM slowly enters the flat - JJ leaps up. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                        JJ? 
 
                                          JJ 
                                Leave me alone! 
 
                                        TOM 
          You stole a case. From a house, this morning. I 
                        need it back. Where is it? 
 
                                          JJ 
              What you on about? What case, what house? 
 
JJ looking for a way out - but TOM has that covered. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            The case, that s all. 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 27 

 
                                  DENTON (V.O.) 
                                No it s not all. 
 
TOM spins around, to see DENTON and BILLY in doorway, both 
pointing guns in his direction. BILLY the most scared of the 
two. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT D) 
                                  JJ. Here. Now. 
 
TOM stands aside and JJ moves behind his brother. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT D) 
        Dis is my house and he is my little brother, which 
                      means you are in big shit bro. 
 
TOM looks at BILLY, whose finger looks ready to pull the 
trigger. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          All we want is the case. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                    I don t see no we. I just see you. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
                              Of course you do. 
 
DENTON and BILLY spin round, to find nothing - TOM as 
surprised as the boys at seeing nothing. Then HARRY steps out 
from corridor and into doorway - right behind DENTON. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                            The case. The phone. 
                          (A beat - points at JJ) 
                                  And the boy. 
 
On TOM. Surprised at HARRY s request. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                              The boy? Who? JJ? 
 
BILLY hardly able to keep his gun still from panic. JJ, 
terrified, looks to DENTON. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT'D) 
          You walk into my house and tell me what s up? 
 
                                        BILLY 
                    D. What if there s more of them? 
 
DENTON pulls back trigger - 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 28 

 
                                        HARRY 
          You cannot possibly imagine what will happen if 
                            you pull that trigger. 
 
                                        DENTON 
            Yeah I can. See I know, you ain t no copper. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          No, we re far worse. The best thing you can do 
                  right now is give us what we want. 
 
DENTON appears to think for a moment. And cogs turn again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    The case. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                  It s not here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We know it s here. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                        I burnt it. Look in the bath. 
 
HARRY nods to TOM who immediately goes to bathroom - guns 
track him down corridor - 
 
HARRY faces DENTON - 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You violated my property? Destroyed possessions I 
                                    held dear? 
 
TOM comes back into the room and nods at HARRY. HARRY s face 
as he takes in what that means. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
            That was a phenomenally stupid thing to do. 
                                        (beat) 
                                    The phone. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                  Ain t got it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Where is it? 
 
                                        DENTON 
                              How should I know? 
 
HARRY is getting increasingly agitated. So is JJ. 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 29 

 
                                        HARRY 
          If you want to see your next birthday, you ll 
                                    answer me. 
 
                                          JJ 
          Just give it to them D. Get them out of here. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                  Nice one JJ. 
 
Pulling out the mobile phone and waving it at them. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT D) 
                            I ll go to the press. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You have the gall to stand there and threaten my 
                                      career? 
 
                                        DENTON 
              Story like this, what must that be worth? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                You ve been watching too much of my TV. 
 
                                        DENTON 
          They say mobiles are bad for you? No shit. One 
                        call from this does the job. 
 
DENTON gauges TOM and HARRYS  reactions. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT'D) 
        That s right. Your mobile went off bro. Eighteen 
              years old and he s fighting for his life. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        And whose prints are all over the murder weapon? 
 
DENTON looks at mobile in his hand. 
 
                                        TOM 
        And you just burnt any proof that links it to us. 
 
TOM, HARRY and DENTON face each other. DENTON tries to figure 
out his next move. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                He s my brother. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            And you ll be facing a life sentence if that 
                            friend of yours dies. 


 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 30 

 
On DENTON, considering his options. Finally he lowers his gun. 
JJ begins to panic. 
 
                                          JJ 
                        No man. No. No. No way. D. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                    Sorry bro. 
 
HARRY swings round to face TOM - indicates for him to take 
him. At first TOM seems unwilling. But then he grabs JJ. 
 
JJ tries in vein to stop TOM. 
 
                                          JJ 
                            Please. Please. No man. 
                                    (to DENTON) 
                          What are you doing, D...? 
 
TOM has to drag JJ out of the door. HARRY give DENTON one last 
look and follows TOM and JJ out. 
 
 
TOM and ZOE escort JJ down the corridor to the Interrogation 
Room. JJ is clearly very anxious. At the door ZOE swipes her 
card and pushes it open for JJ to go in. She puts the card 
back in its holder, attached to her suit. JJ enters the room, 
but not before clocking ZOE s card and where she keeps it. 
 
 
ON SCREEN: List of Chinese names - and job titles. 
 
RUTH flicks down list - stopping at one name in particular. 
 
 Mr Zheng Jing Hui. Military Scientist.  
 
                                        RUTH 
              Sam. Search the yellow tags in Registry. 
            Everything we have on this man please, now. 
 
RUTH rushes out, leaving SAM to ponder image of JING HUI. 
 
 
Danny sits behind camera taking photos of Hastings  offices. 
DANNY S POV: Various people coming in and out of building. 
 
In this montage, we see BERTRAND. DANNY does not pick him out. 
Monitors suddenly go on the blink. JEAN-LUC immediately 



 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 31 

realises what it is... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  What was that? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          Nothing. You British, you need better equipment, 
                                    my friend. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        It doesn t get any better. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                            You haven t seen ours. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        This only happens if there s another team on the 
                                        plot. 
 
DANNY looks out window - BERTRAND is no longer there. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                              The police maybe. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Maybe. 
 
Danny surveys outside, looking for something. Then looks back 
to Jean-Luc who smiles. 
 
                                    OFFICER V/O 
          Charlie one. Driver is moving car round to main 
                                      entrance. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                              He s on the move. 
 
JEAN-LUC leaps up. DANNY calmly raises the radio - 
 
                              DANNY (Into radio) 
            All units hold parallel obs. Keep the target 
                              ringed at all times. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                You see. We do speak the same language. 
 
JEAN-LUC holds door open for DANNY. 
 
 
ZOE and COLIN working hard. 
 
COLIN is suddenly aware of activity on his computer screen - 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 32 

 
TRANSLATION SCREEN: HASTINGS, DURAND and various unknown names 
are appearing alongside a flurry of dialogue - 
 
                                        COLIN 
        You might want to take a look at Hastings  phone 
                                        taps. 
 
The phone taps continue at a pace. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Who are they talking to? 
 
COLIN hits monitor. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                  A Mr Jing Hui? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Is that Chinese? 
 
CLOSE ON: Printer can t print fast enough - 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
          Get the tapes and start editing them. Jean-Luc 
                                mustn t find out. 
 
RUTH rushes in. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Two hours ago GCHQ picked up a call from the 
          Chinese government s 747, to Hastings  offices. 
 
ZOE points to the screen. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Christ. It s a Chinese sale. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Makes sense. Many believe they re the next super 
                                        power. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Well they re one big step closer if they get their 
                              hands on Firestorm. 
 
 
JJ can be seen on the screen, via CCTV, sitting in the 
interrogation room. TOM is sat, watching, waiting impatiently 
for HARRY. 
 
HARRY walks in. 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 33 

 
                                        HARRY 
          Sometimes in order to gain what we must have, we 
        have to take risks. Firestorm tips the scales. It 
        outweighs the risk of anything we might lose. And 
                            that includes my job. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Harry? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        The codes are gone, Tom. My time is up. I have to 
                                    come clean. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You re telling Six. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              And the DG. I m reporting to him at four. 
 
BEAT. On HARRY as he accepts the fate that awaits him. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        You make a mistake, you pay the price. Those are 
        the rules. Firestorm is our priority now. We have 
                                to get it back. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Harry, we choose to do this job. JJ s a child. 
                      What choice are we giving him? 
 
TOM looks at JJ on screen. RUTH and ZOE enter. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        I ve checked the passenger list from the Chinese 
          plane. A missile expert was on board. Dr Zheng 
                                    Jing Hui. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          He called Hastings from the plane. A meeting s 
                        been arranged for tomorrow. 
 
HARRY calmly looks up at JJ on screen. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  That boy has a photographic memory. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        He s fourteen years old... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          That s why no one would ever believe MI5 tasked 
                          him to steal anything... 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 34 

 
ZOE and RUTH are playing catch up. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        You re not serious. Harry? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                      Use a child as a clean skin? 
 
HARRY moves closer to the screen, stares at JJ. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You think this would be the first time? Terrorists 
        aren t the only ones to manipulate youth. It s all 
                              part of the game. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Game? This is not a game Harry. 
 
ZOE goes to leave. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Then you d better come up with an alternative. And 
                                        fast. 
 
ZOE stops dead in her tracks. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        Because right now a fourteen year old thief is our 
                                  best option. 
 
 
DANNY on phone with RUTH. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Durand and Hastings are on the move. 
 
                                    RUTH (V.O.) 
        Durand s planning to sell to the Chinese. You have 
                                      to stall  
                                      Jean-Luc. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    He knows we re up to something. 
 
                                    RUTH (V.O.) 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Because I would. 
 
DANNY ends his phonecall. 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 35 

 
CLOSE ON: JEAN-LUC marches on up ahead and out of ear shot. 
DANNY has to catch up. 
 
                    DANNY (CONT D) (into lapel mike) 
        This is charlie one. Alpha nine and six break off. 
 
Up ahead a man and a woman suddenly stop walking, as DURAND 
and HASTINGS pull up chairs at a cafe. 
 
DANNY and JEAN-LUC take over... 
 
DANNY sits down. Waitress comes walking over. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (Blunt) 
                                Double espresso. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Water. Please. Thank you. 
 
JEAN-LUC takes out cigarette - DANNY watches DURAND and 
HASTINGS in the background. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          My father smoked until he was seventy two. You 
                                    know that? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Strangely enough, no I didn t. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          Seventy-two years on caffeine and nicotine. The 
                            two major food groups. 
                                (Inspecting Danny) 
                              You don t like me. 
                              (Raises his hands) 
        It s OK. I don t like you. But I tell you. I have 
          never voted for Le Pen and I had nothing to do 
                        with the Greenpeace attack. 
 
DANNY can t help but smile. Both men now smiling - JEAN-LUC 
all of a sudden stops. 
 
DANNY follows JEAN-LUC eyes - ZHENG JING HUI and three other 
Chinese men all meet and greet DURAND and HASTINGS - lots of 
bowing and shaking of hands. 
 
                        JEAN-LUC (CONT D) (standing) 
                                    Excuse me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      What s the problem? Jean-Luc. 
 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 36 

JEAN-LUC rises from his chair, strolls off - takes out mobile. 
 
 
ZOE s drawn a blank. Run out of options. Checked every data 
base available. HARRY pulls up a chair. She has a file on her 
lap. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Zoe? 
 
ZOE opens file to reveal photo of JJ. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Read this. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  I ve read it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        He s been in care his whole life. The only foster 
        home he had, social services removed him from when 
        they discovered the foster father was abusing him. 
          And what do we do? Abuse him. We have no way of 
            guaranteeing his safety. He could get hurt, or 
                                        worse. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          In two years he ll be able to carry a gun for 
        queen and country. Now, all we re asking him to do 
                    is download a computer program. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  We have to draw the line somewhere. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        This isn t about you or me, it s about what we ve 
                              been ordered to do. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Are you sure? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        This could be my last operation for MI5. I m not 
                            just going to give up. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      No matter how morally dubious this whole thing is? 
 
HARRY moves in closer. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Start looking at ways of getting him into that 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 37 

        building as safely as possible. We re running out 
                                      of time. 
                                        (beat) 
All of us. 
 
HARRY strides off. Leaving ZOE alone with JJ s pic. 
 
 
TOM looks across at JJ who is stone cold silent - the mobile 
phone gun sits in front of TOM, next to a file. 
 
TOM should be struggling with his own conscience. JJ is 
clearly no match for his interrogation skills. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I checked with the hospital. Your friend is 
                                      stable. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Yeah. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Kyle is your friend, right? 
 
                                          JJ 
          We run together. That s it do. He ain t nuttin  
                                more than that. 
 
JJ takes time to observe TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
        How many systems have you broken? Ones like this 
                                      morning? 
 
                                          JJ 
            Like I m gonna tell you that. You ain t the 
                  police, anyway. What does it matter? 
 
                                        TOM 
        It matters because you impressed my boss. That s 
                                why you re here. 
 
                                          JJ 
                              And where is here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You re in a government building. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      Government. That makes you, what? 
 



 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 38 

                                        TOM 
                                A civil servant. 
 
JJ can t help but smile - TOM has to stop himself. 
 
                                          JJ 
      My brother, he knows. Innit? Had you people sussed 
                    from the off. So, why am I here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  We re offering you an alternative. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                      To what. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Where were you locked up? 
 
                                          JJ 
                          Feltham young offenders. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Happy there? 
 
Clearly JJ had a very bad time there and Tom can see it. 
 
                                          JJ 
        You have to report me first, to the police. And I 
        don t sees you can do that. Not with that phone. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    What phone? 
 
                                          JJ 
                                    That one. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I don t see any phone. 
                                      (A beat) 
            Who s going to believe a fourteen year old 
            convicted thief, wanted in connection with a 
                                      shooting. 
                                    (leans in) 
        We could frame the Pope - so what chance have you 
                                        got? 
 
                                          JJ 
              I got proof you exist. Wanna see it dred? 
                                (Leans forward) 
                              Wanna see the magic? 
 
TOM and JJ observe each other. JJ closes his eyes. 
 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 39 

                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
        Paris 2001. At sixteen hundred hours on Sunday the 
        fifth of March. We followed our target - Durand - 
                south. Target met with Frank Hastings. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  What s that going to mean to anyone? 
 
                        JJ (continuing regardless) 
          Firestorm is accessed by a series of nine twelve 
                                  digit codes. 
 
 
ZOE and HARRY watching JJ via CCTV on the big screen. 
 
                                          JJ 
        Codes must be input in sequence. The first. Seven. 
          Fifteen. Twenty six. Thirty eight. Forty three. 
                                    Twelve. Two. 
 
On TOM. Immediately looks up, into CCTV CAMERA. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Hell s bells. Those codes are in his head. 
 
ZOE and HARRY leave the meeting room, heading for the 
Interrogation Room. 
 
JJ starts laughing. 
 
                                          JJ 
          That s right. I remember everythin. Everythin! 
        It s all in here bro and you ain t gettin none of 
        it. Now, either charge me or let me see my lawyer, 
                                  Government man! 
 
 
DURAND and HASTINGS shake hands with JING HUI. 
 
                              DANNY (Into radio) 
                        All units. Targets leaving. 
 
DANNY looks around for JEAN-LUC - 
 
DANNY S POV: JEAN-LUC some way off - talking on mobile. 
 
                                    VOICE OVER 
                                Copy Alpha one. 
 
DURAND and HASTINGS stride off - 
 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 40 

On JEAN-LUC. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (French) 
        Durand s selling Firestorm to the Chinese. Suggest 
          we terminate Durand s citizenship. Immediately. 
 
CLOSE ON: RICHARD BERTRAND, hangs up as we PAN BACK to reveal 
he was sitting only feet away from DURAND and JING HUI. It was 
in fact BERTRAND, that JEAN-LUC was just talking to. 
 
 
JJ sits back, gaining in confidence every second. 
 
ZOE and HARRY are in there with TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You have two options. The first one being we hand 
          you over to the police. Now seeing as you shot 
          your friend, I d advise you rule that one out. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                Was an accident. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Of course it was. They all are. 
 
                              JJ (guard up again) 
        I ain t going to do shit you tell me, so just let 
                                me out of here. 
 
JJ stands, pushing his chair back. TOM looks to ZOE and HARRY. 
They gauge TOM wants some time alone with JJ. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              We ll be upstairs. 
 
They move to the door, HARRY punches in the code and then uses 
his swipe-card to leave. JJ watches. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    We re offering you a way out JJ. 
 
                                          JJ 
        If I help you. You ll take me back to my brother. 
                                      Alright? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                          JJ 
            At least Denton is a straight up thief. You 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 41 

                people. You re pathetic. You re liars! 
 
 
HARRY, ZOE and TOM are watching JJ via CCTV on the big screen. 
He is rocking back and forth in his chair. A bundle of energy. 
ZOE looks at JJ then at HARRY and TOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            We sure he s up to it? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Has to be. 
 
They leave the meeting room. On the CCTV screen, we see JJ go 
up to the door and start fiddling with the entry panel. 
 
 
JJ punches in a code on the door panel. A green light flashes 
up, followed by the words  SWIPE CARD . JJ hesitates for a 
second. 
 
 
TOM and ZOE walk along the corridor. 
 
                                        TOM 
          His job is to access the computer and input the 
                  codes. That s all he needs to know. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          You make it sound easy. 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 42 

 
As they approach the interrogation room they see the door is 
open. 
 
 
TOM and ZOE rush inside but JJ is gone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  He must have seen me punch the code. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  You need a pass to open this door. 
 
                                ZOE (realising) 
                              Tom. He s got mine! 
 
                                        TOM 
                    I think I know where he s going. 
 
 
JJ enters the flat. Totally still and silent. 
 
DENTON appears from the bedroom, stops dead when he sees JJ. 
 
                                        DENTON 
                              What you doing here? 
 
Proud. Arrogant. 
 
                                          JJ 
        Should have seen me D. I m tellin ya bro, should 
            have seen their faces. I got away. From the 
                                  government, man! 
 
JJ is waiting for approval - he s done well. But it doesn t 
come. Instead, DENTON stares... until finally - 
 
                                        DENTON 
                                  You re a fool! 
 
This rejection hurts JJ deeply. He folds his arms, defensive, 
backing away. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT'D) 
        I don t want you here. I can t have nothing to do 
                                    with you. 
 
                                          JJ 
                But, but you re all I got. You said it. 
 



 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 43 

                                        DENTON 
                    They ll follow you here you idiot- 
 
                                          JJ 
                        You said, we re all we got. 
 
                                        DENTON 
        I said that cos I thought you could help me. But 
        you didn t, you messed up. You got it now? Don t 
                              come looking for me. 
 
DENTON goes to leave. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      But what happens to me? Bro? 
 
                                        DENTON 
            Whatever these people want. Give it to them. 
 
JJ is totally confused - the little boy now fully visible 
under the attitude. 
 
DENTON approaches JJ and for the first time in JJ s entire 
life, DENTON gently touches JJ s face. 
 
                                DENTON (CONT'D) 
            Without me, you could fly. (kisses JJ on his 
                                      forehead) 
                              Show them the magic. 
 
DENTON goes to leave. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      Please. Please don t leave me. 
 
JJ as he would have been the day his mother left him. 
 
 
TOM stands by his car. Zoe sits in driver s seat. JJ walks 
over. Tears roll down his cheeks. Tom opens the door for him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I m sorry. 
 
JJ gets into car. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    You okay? 
 
                                          JJ 
                              Why wouldn t I be? 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 44 

Tom gets in and sits by JJ. Somber and totally ill at ease 
with what he is doing to JJ. 
 
 
CHRISTINE. Done up to the nines. Alone. Waiting. 
 
TOM approaches. He doesn t have to say it. CHRISTINE reads his 
body language. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Sorry. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  Hey. I lied. I hate opera as well. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          You look -BEAT- amazing. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          Thank you. Another time? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I d like that. 
 
CHRISTINE looks up at him then - a passionate kiss that might 
just get out of hand - they have to stop themselves. 
 
CLOSE: TOM radiating. Smiling. No. Grinning. Cheshire cat. 
With a last look, he walks away. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ. TOM, ZOE, HARRY and COLIN all present - TOM is 
pointing to the monitors - but JJ is more interested in the 
bank of computer equipment installed in the room. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                    Wicked man! 
 
                                        TOM 
        These screens show us inside Hastings  offices. We 
        need you to get in there as easily as you got into 
                                      Harry s. 
 
                                          JJ 
        That weren t nothin. Plenty more tricks where that 
                                    came from. 
 
HARRY looking unimpressed. TOM nods to COLIN. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We can manipulate the internal CCTV cameras via 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 45 

                                  digital codes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          All the cameras are hidden in the ceiling. You 
          won t be able to see them, but we ll be able to 
                                      see you. 
 
                                        COLIN 
            We can only control the cameras for a short 
                          period. Take too long... 
 
                                          JJ 
                    The system crashes. Yeah I know. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          Once you re inside the building, it s all about 
        timing. We ve got you a security swipe card and a 
        finger print copy that will give you access to all 
                                  the offices. 
 
                                          JJ 
                  Finger print? How did you do that? 
 
                                        COLIN 
          Simple. We just went through their rubbish until 
                we found something with a print on it. 
 
JJ impressed. 
 
                                          JJ 
                What is this stuff I m nicking anyway? 
 
                                        TOM 
          A computer program. It s worth a lot of money to 
                                  some people. 
 
                                          JJ 
          Money s money as long as I got a lot of it. Know 
                                    wot I mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Can you do this JJ? 
 
                            JJ (Kisses his teeth) 
          Got into his house with my eyes shut. What you 
                                      reckon? 
 
On HARRY. 
 
 
LATER: TOM, ZOE, COLIN and JJ sit, surrounded by a bank of 
monitors. 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 46 

 
TOM points to one, showing a 3D replica of HASTINGS  property. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        This is an exact schematic of Hastings  property. 
              Every door, window, CCTV camera position. 
 
                                        TOM 
        JJ, you need to memorise all of this by tomorrow 
                                      morning. 
 
                              JJ (kissing teeth) 
                                        Sweet. 
 
JJ becomes more animated, as he realises the technology he has 
at his fingertips - it is all new to him. 
 
                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
                        You got any games for this? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                Well, actually - 
 
TOM stares him down. He points to exit door on monitor - 
 
                                        TOM 
                        That s your insertion point. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                      My what? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Where you go in. You ll have to negotiate the 
        turnstile - use your swipe card. Then there s the 
        revolving door. You ll come to a flight of stairs. 
          No need to rush just keep an even pace. You ll 
              need to use the finger print entry for the 
          security pod. After that, it s just corridors. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            You ll have five minutes to locate Durand s 
        office, find his laptop, download the program and 
                              mail it over to us. 
 
JJ kisses his teeth. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                    Easy man. 
 
 




 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 47 

CLOSE ON: CCTV monitor. DANNY looks though surveillance tapes 
of JEAN-LUC arriving in Heathrow Airport. 
 
RUTH looks through a mass of surveillance photos - of 
HASTINGS  offices - of the museum etc. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    What are we looking for, exactly? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        A sign that Jean-Luc s not being completely honest 
            with us. It s here somewhere. I know it is. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        But as long as our clean skin gets in and steals 
            Firestorm, what does it matter if Jean-Luc s 
                        telling us the truth or not? 
 
DANNY looks at her, then notices something on one photo in the 
museum. He takes out another photo - a match? 
 
CLOSE ON: DANNY. Alarm bells ringing. 
 
 
JJ uses the joystick to move around the 3D layout of HASTINGS  
property. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Not too fast, not too slow. Walk normally. 
        Maintain a steady, even pace. Don t draw attention 
                                  to yourself. 
 
                            JJ (Kisses his teeth) 
          Not my style Zoe, but I ll do it like the spy 
                                        says. 
 
She watches JJ concentrating. Motherly impulses kicking in. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I ll lock into the CCTV frequency and adjust the 
          angles of each camera so you have a clear path. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Easy. 
 
                                        TOM 
        But you have to allow time for each camera to move 
          off your position. Once you re in the office, 
            input the codes and mail the program to us. 
 
JJ stares at the screen. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 48 

                                        ZOE 
            Remember, you ll only have five minutes to get 
                                        there. 
 
                                          JJ 
                              I ain t got a watch. 
 
JJ pulls up his sleeve - TOM takes his watch off - 
 
                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
                        Where d you get that? Argos? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Present from an old girlfriend. 
 
                                          JJ 
                            Hoped you ditched her. 
 
TOM looks at ZOE - is this going to work? 
 
 
LATER: JJ beginning to tire now, as is COLIN. 
 
TOM and ZOE are restless, determined to keep JJ familiarising 
the layout for as long as it takes. 
 
                                          JJ 
          Ain t there nothing else I ve got to learn for 
              this spy mission? I ve got joystick fever. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          OK, let s take a break. 
 
JJ looks relieved, but his relief is short-lived. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
          Type the codes into this computer. Practice the 
                                      sequence. 
 
                                  JJ (laughing) 
         Practice the sequence ? Where you learn to speak? 
 
JJ moves over to the next computer, and speed-types the codes 
in, one after the other. COLIN times him with a stopwatch, 
impressed. 
 
Then, suddenly, JJ stops typing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              One more code, JJ. 
 



 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 49 

CLOSE ON: COLIN. 
 
                              COLIN (sotto voce) 
          Maybe he only remembers them for a short time. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          JJ. What s the problem? 
 
JJ doesn t move. 
 
                                        TOM 
          JJ. You know all the codes. Now enter the last 
                                        one. 
 
Still JJ does nothing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Tom. What s going on? 
 
JJ slowly turns round in his chair - looks at TOM. 
 
                                          JJ 
        Who s gonna believe a thief like me. Wot you said 
                                - common thief. 
 
CLOSE ON: TOM. Struggling to say it. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Just put the numbers in and you re home dry. 
 
                                          JJ 
                          But I won t be. Will I? 
 
Pieces slowly clicking into place... 
 
                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
        Ain t gonna have no mic in my ear. No back up. No 
          traces. No way out. They catch me and I m toast. 
                                Some scum thief. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Once you ve downloaded Firestorm, we re.. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      The truth. That s all I want. 
 
JJ waits for an answer from TOM... 
 
TOM indicates to ZOE and COLIN, to leave them alone. 
 
 



 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 50 

DANNY alone in the grid - going over various pictures as RUTH 
approaches - 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Richard Bertrand. Ex Foreign Legion. Currently 
                attached to the French Secret service. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Foreign legion. 
 
RUTH passes him JEAN-LUC s file. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            As was Jean-Luc. Held the rank of Captain. 
                          Bertrand served under him. 
 
DANNY and RUTH look at each other. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      If Jean-Luc s identified Jing Hui, he ll know that 
        Durand s got something worth selling. And I m sure 
        he ll have a team on stand-by to snatch it before 
                                  that happens. 
 
On RUTH. 
 
 
Close on TOM and JJ. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You or anybody else. The intention was the same. 
                              We leave no traces. 
 
                                          JJ 
              So I m going down. Is that the way it is? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                That s up to you. 
 
                                          JJ 
        The system crashes in five minutes, that puts me 
              in the building. How do you get me out? 
 
                                        TOM 
          We don t. From our point of view it s a one way 
                                      mission. 
 
JJ stares into TOM s eyes and realises the truth. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
        JJ. You re the only one who can get yourself out 
                                    of there. 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 51 

 
                                          JJ 
          It s cool! It s the only thing I m any good at, 
            right? I mean, that s why I m here. I know my 
                                        place. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            It s not like that... 
 
                                          JJ 
          Me and you, we re from different galaxies. I do 
          this for you, you do something for me. Alright? 
 
TOM nods. 
 
                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
        You see Kyle gets everything he needs. You get me? 
          Everything. Private room, big bowl of fruit, like 
                      the one they have at Harrods. 
 
                                        TOM 
          If you do this for us. I ll see Kyle gets the 
          biggest bowl of fruit Harrods have ever made up. 
 
ZOE enters. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Tom. Danny needs you back in the grid. Now. 
 
 
ON SCREEN: surveillance photos. TOM, HARRY, DANNY and RUTH all 
present. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Jean-Luc and Richard Bertrand are both ex Special 
                                      Forces. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Are you certain Jean-Luc identified our Chinese 
                                      specialist? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          99%. Which, with special forces involved, will 
                            mean only one thing - 
 
                              TOM (interrupting) 
        A take team. As soon as Jean-Luc sees the Chinese 
        pull into Hasting s car park they ll try and stop 
                              whatever s going off. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Do we abort? 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 52 

 
                                        HARRY 
        No. We ve been tasked to steal Firestorm. That is 
        exactly what we have to do. And before the French 
                  try and get their grubby paws on it. 
 
                                  TOM (To Danny) 
        Double up surveillance teams, watch Durand s every 
          bloody move and try to keep tabs on our Foreign 
                                legion friends. 
 
ZOE considers the gravity of the situation. 
 
 
ON: JJ dressed in maintenance overalls - he puts on badge and 
holds security swipe card. 
 
COLIN gives JJ a plastic finger print - 
 
                                        COLIN 
                      Put this on your index finger. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                    This one. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                      No, this is your index finger. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Cool. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        It only works once and don t hang about. It will 
            deteriorate pretty quickly once it comes into 
                            contact with the air. 
 
ZOE sits, facing the computer equipment. She turns to watch JJ 
step out of the van, smiling at her amorously. COLIN hands 
radio set to TOM. 
 
                                  COLIN (CONT'D) 
        It s set on our emergency frequency. Only you will 
                                      hear us. 
 
                                  TOM (To Zoe) 
                                      You ok? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            He s not ready. You know that, I know that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        With you watching over him? 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 53 

 
                                        ZOE 
          He s only seen the inside of that building on a 
              computer program. What chance has he got? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        One. 
 
As TOM turns away, it is obvious how worried he is about JJ. 
 
 
As the night-shift team pack up and leave, DANNY and JEAN-LUC 
take up positions. 
 
DANNY watches JEAN-LUC s every move. Trying to gauge his now, 
relaxed attitude. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      So. You were with the Legion? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                            A Captain. Eight years. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          How did you end up there? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        They have a base in Marseille, near where I lived. 
                            I liked the uniforms. 
                                    (Wry smile) 
        And it seemed better than spending my life on the 
          streets of Marseille. It was that or football. 
 




 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 54 

                                        DANNY 
                                      Football. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                    I could have played for Marseille. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Why didn t you? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                      Mary-Anne. She hated football. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            What happened to her? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        She ran off with my best friend. What can you do? 
 
CLOSE ON: JEAN-LUC. Smiles. 
 
 
On COLIN. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                OK. Here we go. 
 
ZOE. Nervous. 
 
                                ZOE (Into Mike) 
            Alpha two. Position. Good to go on my mark? 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                            Confirmed. Good to go. 
 
ZOE. 
 
 
DANNY watching JEAN-LUC. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                            I think you like Sam. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Really. What gave you that impression? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          I can read people. It s why I am good at what I 
          do. And it s how I know you British know more 
                    about Durand than you are saying. 
 
On DANNY. Pow! 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 55 

 
                                JEAN-LUC (CONT D) 
                    I think I just put you in check. 
 
On DANNY. DANNY S POV: ZHENG JING HUI s car driving towards 
offices. DANNY looks over at JEAN LUC. He s clearly clocked 
this too. DANNY - oh shit. They both smile sweetly at each 
other. 
 
 
DURAND at work. He sees JING HUI s car approaching, closes his 
laptop and stands up - for a moment he considers taking it 
with him but then thinks better of it and exits office. 
 
 
DANNY is watching the world outside but listening intently to 
JEAN-LUC as he talks on his mobile. 
 
                              JEAN-LUC (in French) 
        Isn t it nice when you are right about something. 
                      I think it s time for a visit. 
                                        (beat) 
                      Yes, sooner rather than later. 
 
JEAN-LUC hangs up the phone. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Everything OK? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                    My mother. She worries so much. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Yeah, can t think why. 
 
 
ZOE and COLIN working control panel. ZOE and COLIN look for JJ 
in CCTV monitors. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                                      He s in. 
 
ZOE hits wall mounted clock - then swings round, grabs hold of 
CCTV remote controls - 
 




 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 57 

CLOSE ON: various monitors showing different corridors within 
HASTINGS  offices. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Four minutes and fifty seconds. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                            I m on my way to you. 
 
CLOSE ON: CCTV monitor - Camera moves onto JJ - 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Zoe! 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      I got it. 
 
ZOE quickly takes control and moves camera off JJ... 
 
 
JJ swipes his card and passes through revolving door - moving 
off down corridor - passing various office workers, none of 
whom bat an eye lid. 
 
 
All CCTV monitors momentarily go on the blink. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Interference. 
 
                                        TOM 
            He ll be at camera two. South east corridor. 
 
ZOE switches to camera, as TOM rushes into the van. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ. White maze of corridors. 
 
JJ moves off down corridor. Trying to maintain the right pace 
as suddenly HASTINGS, DURAND, JING HUI and co appear from the 
corridor right behind JJ. 
 
JJ has to stop himself from picking up his pace as he sees up 
ahead another security door - 
 
ON JJ. He swipes card - but it doesn t work and now HASTINGS, 
DURAND and JING HUI are all now waiting to go through same 
door. JJ tries it again. It works 
 



 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 58 

JJ continues on down corridor checking his watch he picks up 
his pace - needs to make up some time. 
 
 
Every monitor is on the blink. COLIN and TOM desperately 
trying to see JJ on monitors. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Lost it again. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                          Frequencies all messed up. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Zoe get it off his position. Security will see 
                                        him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            I can t. Off line again. 
 
ZOE tries to control camera as JJ ducks out of sight. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                        I ve totally lost control - 
 
                                        COLIN 
        I don t understand. There must be another team on 
        the plot. I could call the electricity board, have 
                        them close down this grid. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Do that and we ll lose all visuals. This has to 
                  have something to do with Jean-Luc. 
 
 
DANNY and JEAN-LUC wait anxiously for news of their men 
inside. Both are pretending they have nothing to hide. DANNY 
surreptitiously glances at his watch. JEAN-LUC catches him, 
but looks away. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        This must be pretty boring for you Jean-Luc. I bet 
          you ve been on more exciting ops than this one. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        Oh, I don t know. It s not over yet. We both know 
                    that life is full of surprises. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t we just. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 59 

 
JJ powers up stairs. At the top he takes out finger print 
copy, places it on finger and presses it on pad. Enters pod 
and steps out into wide, empty corridor. 
 
 
JJ at DURAND s office - stops at the door. He sees combi lock 
entrance pad. This was something they hadn t planned on. 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Shit! 
 
Now camera is moving back towards his position. 
 
                                    JJ (CONT D) 
                                        Shit! 
 
JJ starts punching numbers on entry panel - nothing works and 
the CCTV camera is moving ever closer, towards his position. 
 
                                    JJ (CONT D) 
                                      Come on. 
 
JJ punches away, but the door will not open. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and COLIN watch as CCTV cam moves onto JJ - who 
stands, prodding at door. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                What s he doing? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              Come on JJ. MOVE! 
 
TOM takes a closer look at screen. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        It s a keypad entry system. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            What? But it can t be. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We didn t pick it up. We didn t pick it up! 
 
                                        TOM 
          Because you can t see it from this angle. Wait. 
 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 60 

 
JJ punches away. Nothing he can do. JJ rummages around in his 
pocket - pulls out his palm top - Does exactly what he did at 
HARRY s house. 
 
 
Quiet, still office. Laptop sits on desk. 
 
Door buzzes open. JJ enters. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and COLIN glued to CCTV cams - Guard is now pacing 
down corridor. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Good boy JJ. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Yes! 
 
ZOE sees Guard pacing down corridor. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Why s that guard moving so fast? 
 
TOM watches the Guard as he passes each camera. Each time he 
does so, it s clear he s hiding his face. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            He s hiding his face. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              What do you mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Bertrand! 
 
 
DANNY and JEAN-LUC still waiting. A beat. They smile at each 
other, keeping up the pretence. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: JJ sits down in front of laptop. Instantly JJ is 
impressed by the make and model. 
 
CLOSE ON: LAPTOP. JJ runs his hand across it with total 
reverence. 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 61 

LAPTOP is still connected to the phone line - turns laptop on 
- waits and waits - considers his options. 
 
 
COLIN points at his computer screen. 
 
                                        COLIN 
              Once he s accessed Firestorm, we ll see it 
                                  download here. 
 
Nothing is happening. 
 
                                  COLIN (CONT D) 
                                      Hopefully. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Come on JJ. 
 
ZOE and COLIN watch the blank monitor. 
 
Tom turns his attention to CCTV POVS of DURAND and BERTRAND, 
who are now both approaching DURAND s office from different 
angles. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Come on. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We re out of time. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                  Where is it? 
 
DURAND is the first one to arrive at his office door. He stops 
still for a moment. 
 
 
DURAND enters office, sees his laptop has gone - desperately 
he looks around room to find nothing. 
 
Guard appears behind him. DURAND looks around his desk 
frantically - 
 
                                      BERTRAND 
          Durand. You know what we came for? Hand over the 
                                      laptop. 
 
                                        DURAND 
                I don t know what you re talking about. 
 
                                      BERTRAND 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 62 

                      Don t be a fool. Hand it over. 
 
Durand looking for a way out. He suddenly lunges forward - 
 
WE HEAR: BANG!! 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and COLIN stare numbly at an empty corridor. 
 
Suddenly, their monitors go on the blink. All visuals are 
lost. 
 
 
On BERTRAND. Staring at office door slowly opening to reveal 
JJ hiding behind door, seemingly empty handed. 
 
BERTRAND does not know what to do. JJ s just a kid. JJ remains 
still. He wants to run, but he can t. Tears well in his eyes - 
 
JJ and BERTRAND just observe each other. BERTRAND puts his gun 
away and strides out past JJ. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and COLIN sit in silence as BERTRAND walks down the 
corridor and out of the building. 
 
ZOE goes to rush out - grabbed by TOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                But we can t just leave him in there. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  We re not even supposed to be here. 
 
ON MONITOR: TOM, ZOE and COLIN watch as JING HUI quick marches 
out of HASTINGS  office, straight onto street and hails a 
taxi. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              Maybe JJ got out. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Maybe. 
 
ANOTHER MONITOR: HASTINGS races down the corridor towards 
DURAND s office, stopping in doorway - and just stands looking 
into DURAND s office in shock. 
 
 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 63 

JEAN-LUC is in the dock. HARRY can hardly hide his anger -  
TOM, ZOE and DANNY and RUTH watch on. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    Did you order him to kill Durand? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          I would remind you that an accusation like that, 
          from your government to mine, has far reaching 
                                    consequences. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So does having people executed on British soil. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        I really have no idea what you are talking about. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  You re lying. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                                Am I? Prove it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          So you do know this man. 
 
ON SCREEN: Photos of RICHARD BERTRAND. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        Richard Bertrand. Of course I know him, he served 
                                in my regiment. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Come on Jean-Luc. He was part of a team you had 
                  there. Bertrand was working for you. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                    What is this really about? Huh. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          This is about you concealing the truth from us. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          I am concealing nothing. He served under me. I 
              believe he is now a gun for hire. Obviously 
          someone hired him. Durand owed a lot of money. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        It s all just a bit bloody convenient, don t you 
                                        think. 
 




 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 64 

                                      JEAN-LUC 
                                      I suppose. 
 
RUTH hands documents to TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s being reported as a burglary gone wrong. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          But it could have been worse, no? Durand didn t 
                          manage to sell Firestorm. 
 
JEAN-LUC throws Harry a wry smile. TOM and the team cover 
their surprise that the French knew about Firestorm. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (CONT D) 
          So. Like you the Chinese are left empty handed. 
                        But bravo, bravo, nice try. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I don t know what you re talking about. Will there 
                              be anything else? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I d say it s been a pleasure, but it hasn t. 
 
TOM escorts JEAN-LUC out of room. HARRY can hold his anger in 
no more nor can ZOE. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        We just left JJ in there. 
 
                                  HARRY (angry) 
        Well it looks like he got out, doesn t it? That s 
                            twice he s robbed me. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    He wouldn t even be here at all - 
 
HARRY raises his finger to silence her. She slaps it away. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                      Don t point that thing at me. 
 
Rage builds. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        You have nothing to say to me on this. You were in 
          the wrong. The only thing you ve been concerned 
          about on this entire operation is yourself. We 
        have to find that boy. I ll take charge of it. We 
                            can t just leave him. 
 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 65 

And she leaves. 
 
