 
DANNY and ZOE sit with their heads in their hands. 
An alarm sounds - wailing, almost mournful. Like the 
internalised grief of our heroes sitting before us. 
 
DANNY and ZOE start, it s a blast of adrenaline and very very 
loud... They look at each other-fear. An OFFICER runs across 
towards them - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          That what I think it is? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Sounds like it. 
 
                          MALCOLM (replacing phone) 
          That was security. It s a coded warning. We ll 
                        have to evacuate the floor. 
 
                                      OFFICER 
        It s on the wires. There s been an explosion, IED. 
                                  South London. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      I know! And it s North London - 
 
                                      OFFICER 
        Wandsworth. Grid reference... MT two zero five one 
                                        ... 
 
OFFICER reads off his notes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        No, no, no, I was just on the bloody phone to him, 
                                        it s- 
                                        (beat) 
                          What the hell s going on? 
 



 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 2 

                                      OFFICER 
                Like I said. Explosion, South London. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Can I ask you all please to move to the exits - 
                        sorry but it s regulations-- 
 
                                  ZOE (to Danny) 
                            Danny. Use my mobile. 
 
ZOE and DANNY run towards the pods, dialling - 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                Walk, don t run! 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  It s ringing, it s bloody ringing. 
 
 
As columns of people descend - DANNY and ZOE. ZOE now on her 
mobile. HARRY pushing past from above to catch up with them - 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Look I spoke to him, he s alive - but that s it, 
                              that s all I know. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Well he s not answering now. 
 
HARRY arrives, impatient. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Tom s okay- 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  What about the South London blast? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Looks like C4 plastic. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Target area? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Residential street, Wandsworth. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Who lives down there? 
 
HARRY s pager buzzes. As he reads it... Fear. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            The Secretary of State for Northern Ireland. 
 
 
A young and trendy CIVIL SERVANT (female) enters through the 
pods, with an even younger assistant. DANNY and ZOE on the 
phones. It s mayhem here. Another OFFICER (TWO) walks towards 
DANNY and ZOE with a plastic bag. 
 
                                    OFFICER TWO 
                                Special Branch - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Not now! 
 
DANNY waves him away. ZOE takes pity, and he tries again. 
 
                                    OFFICER TWO 
            - just delivered these, they were found in a 
        forgery raid near Heathrow this morning. Sorry, I 
                    know you re busy and everything   
 
ZOE sees through the clear plastic that they are three UK 
passports. She shoots him an apologetic look - 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Run the headshots through airport security feeds, 
              see if face-matching throws up anything. 
 
                                    OFFICER TWO 
                                    Then what? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Then put them on the pile. 
 
She nods at the pile of papers in her intray-manages a smile 
as we hear a heated dressing-down in HARRY s office- 
 
                                    HARRY O.S. 
          We are not the ones to blame for this security 
                                      breach! 
 
 
-as he confronts the CIVIL SERVANT. 
 
                                  CIVIL SERVANT 
          Balls. You wanted the lead in counter terror in 
        this country. You got it. And now you re trying to 



 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 7 

                            pass the red hot turd. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            We have been wrestling with a number of very 
                                serious threats - 
 
                                  CIVIL SERVANT 
        Dunno if you re aware of this Harry but a Senior 
          Cabinet Minister and his two daughters just got 
            blown to smithereens in their bloody kitchen! 
                                        (beat) 
            He was supposed to be under twenty four hour 
                      protection-! Him of all people! 
 
                                        HARRY 
                That s Special Branch s responsiblity. 
 
                                  CIVIL SERVANT 
              Everything flows from you and you know it. 
 
HARRY looms over her now - it s threatening as hell - 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    We are doing everything we can. 
 
 
As TOM, ELLIE and MAISIE are driven. 
 
                                        TOM 
          And then after the doctors, I thought maybe we 
                          could have a milkshake. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                      Can we? 
 
TOM s phone again. Ringing. 
 
ELLIE is very controlled, very quiet. The Driver turns round-
obviously to see if she s okay. To her it s very invasive, 
almost unsettling. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                Who is it, Tom? 
 
TOM answers. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
                                  Mr. Crockett. 
 
TOM s eyes react - he s trying to keep this from ELLIE. But 
she sees. MAISIE is a little put out but ELLIE senses the 



 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 8 

tension in TOM and cuddles MAISIE towards her. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
                                        Davy? 
 
                                TOM(into phone) 
                                    I m here. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
          So you are. Side-stepped their little surprise 
                            then? Glad to hear it. 
 
 
PATRICK MCCANN, Irish terrorist. Sweating. Looking hounded. 
 
                                TOM V.O. (soft) 
                                  Where are you? 
 
Eyes look at MCCANN. He s distracted, pacing quickly. 
 
                                        MCCANN 
        Tell you the truth I m in a little spot of bother. 
                    Wondered if you could help me out. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                    You want me to do you a favour. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
                        I want to come work for you. 
 
 
As TOM leans into the window to keep the conversation quiet 
and away from ELLIE. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Is this a defection? 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
                              You could say that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I don t believe you. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
            A little bird s told someone about our chats, 
            Davy. I need out. Before someone retires me 
                                    permanently. 
                                        (beat) 
        If you think you ve had a bad morning, Davy, it s 
                  about to get a hell of a lot worse. 
 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 9 

                                        TOM 
                            I need more than that. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
        My Branch Chief s looking to do more than change 
        the logo, Davy, he s got big plans and things are 
        gonna get nasty pretty quickly. The War for Irish 
        Unity s first National campaign. Suffice to say it 
                                  just started. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    And you ve had a change of heart. 
 
                                  MCCANN S VOICE 
            Terror game s changed. I m telling you. It s 
        scary. Particularly right now, Davy, I must admit. 
        At this present moment my sphincter is tightening 
      at an alarming rate. I warned you about the laptop 
            didn t I? Use me and you can stop this now. 
 
 
MCCANN is standing by the lift. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                            Let me send someone. 
 
                                        MCCANN 
                                Is that a yes? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                            Tell me your location. 
 
                                        MCCANN 
                                IS THAT A YES? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                                        Yes... 
 
But MCCANN s not listening - the lift doors open. We don t see 
who it is. But MCCANN is frozen with terror. 
 
 
DANNY, ZOE, HARRY, MALCOLM. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The laptop was a diversion. McCann s group had 
            presumed that Tom would bring it back here - 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Lobby security scans would pick it up immediately. 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 10 

                                        HARRY 
                                      Precisely. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Alarms going off. Bomb disposal called. They even 
              threw in a coded warning. Complete chaos. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                They wanted all resources pointed here. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Meanwhile their unit moves into position. 
 
Silence. Thoughts. HARRY is paged. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        McCann warned Tom about the laptop. He called to 
                            warn him about the C4. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          The explosion that killed Michael Purefoy was 
        synchronous with the timer on the laptop. Why warn 
            him if he was looking to cause disruption? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                ...I don t know. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I do. It was a sweetener. McCann just agreed to a 
                                      defection. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Is he here? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          We re fetching him now. 
                                        (ice) 
                            Keep him away from me. 
 
 
Two MI5 HARD MEN emerge from a STAIRWELL with earpieces, etc. 
No MCCANN. One of the hard men talks discreetly into a 
microphone - a THUD-THUD-THUD can be heard- 
 
                                  MI5 HARD MAN 
                                      No sign. 
                                      (listens) 
                                        Wait. 
 
The two men turn a corner to find the LIFT AREA. A man s bare 
foot can be seen projecting out from the lift. The lift is 
CLOSING ON THE FOOT - THUD-THUD-THUD. They approach, tense - 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 11 

The two men rush in to find the battered corpse of PATRICK 
MCCANN splayed across the floor of the lift. He has been shot 
in the forehead. One of the men notices a small label tied to 
MCCANN s naked foot. Bloodstained, it reads  PROPERTY OF MI5 . 
 
 
HARRY walks with ZOE and DANNY towards HARRY s Office. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Executed for collaboration. Oh the irony. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Saving Tom s life to try and save his own. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        He didn t save anyone. Tom was lucky, that s all. 
          The bomb didn t go off and he was just lucky. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I told you McCann was not to be trusted. And I was 
                                        right.  
                                        (beat) 
            If he was attempting to defect then we must 
        regrettably take what he told Tom to be the truth. 
        We cannot presume this attack is anything but the 
                                      beginning. 
 
The OFFICER races across - 
 
                                      OFFICER 
            Urgent incident report sir, but I don t have 
        clearance to read it - it s on screen for you now. 
 
HARRY dives to his monitor. Reads swiftly. The OFFICER 
departs. HARRY sits. To DANNY and ZOE- 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Another explosion. Longcross. Get Tom back here. 
                                        Now. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Did you say - ? 
 
                                  ZOE (to Danny) 
                    What the bloody hell s going on? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          As in the military base? 
 
                            HARRY (picks up phone) 
                          Chief of Defence Staff. 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 12 

DANNY and ZOE exit into the Grid - as they do, they both clock 
SAM as she enters through the pods. ZOE heads off to meet her. 
DANNY just stays a moment to... appreciate her. 
 
 
SAM BUXTON, our new entrant, cuts a rather striking contrast 
to the sleek, sheer chrome of the Grid - dressed as she is in 
a luminous pink Top Shop top and slightly-too-sexy skirt. 
She s 23. Bright, confident ... and now totally nervous as she 
takes in the maelstrom of the Grid- 
 
                                SAM (to herself) 
                                    Oh my God. 
 
ZOE arrives. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Are you Sam? 
                                    (Sam nods) 
                        Right. I need you. This way. 
 
SAM follows. ZOE hands SAM a clipboard. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  You re late. 
 
                                        SAM 
        Someone was s posed to meet me downstairs but they 
                                    never came- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Bit busy at the moment. 
 
                                        SAM 
          It s alright, I was trying to get the security 
            guard s home address and passport number, you 
                          know, like in training- 
 
                                    ZOE (blunt) 
          Go down to Registry and pull up these vetting 
            files on Longcross staff. Some will be dead, 
        others just injured. Dead on one side, injured on 
          the other. We need to cross-check their vetting 
              histories... Prioritise the living, please. 
 
Off SAM s reaction - 
 
 
As HARRY arrives. DANNY reads off his screen. There s a map 
that reads:  LONGCROSS MILITARY BASE - SCHEMATIC  
 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 13 

                                DANNY (reading) 
            Looks like a mortar attack or one hell of a 
              serious explosion in the munitions section. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Either we re being invaded or this is a nationwide 
                          assault by the old enemy. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        No, Harry, come on. There s no way that unit could 
              have got down to Longcross in that time. 
 
A horrible thought. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Unless there s... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              More than one unit. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        But it s seriously classified, Harry. Think about 
        it. Even local residents think it s just an army 
            transport facility. It s not on any map. Never 
                    been a target before. For anyone. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Whoever s responsible, I smell a leak in the MOD. 
 
MALCOLM arrives. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Longcross, Harry. We have an official denial from 
          all republican splinter organisations including 
        the War for Irish Unity. Claims of responsibility 
        from eleven other groups. Three possibles, eight 
                                    nonsensicals. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Let s get a team onto the possibles. 
                                      (irritable) 
                              And try Tom again. 
 
MALCOLM and HARRY depart, as DANNY dials. 
 
                              DANNY (into phone) 
                                        Tom? 
 
 
TOM sits in the back, being driven with ELLIE and MAISIE. 
 



 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 14 

                                TOM (into phone) 
                            No, Danny, I m sorry. 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Tom, the sky is falling. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      My family need me right now. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          This is from the top. There s no negotiation on 
                            this mate. I m sorry. 
                              (silence on the line) 
                                        Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
        They re staying with me one way or another, Danny. 
        Make some space on the third floor. If I m coming 
                              in... so are they. 
 
He ends the call. 
 
 
As TOM, ELLIE and MAISIE pass through security. We notice 
security has been upped since last we were here. 
 
ZOE embraces TOM. Then ELLIE. And MAISIE. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        You remember Zoe don t you? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Hello. We ve got a very comfortable room for you 
          in the medical centre. It s not the penthouse 
                                        but... 
 
ELLIE tries to smile. ZOE relaxes her all the same. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                  Where are we? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              This is my office. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                            Is it a secret office? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                It certainly is. 
 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 15 

                                        MAISIE 
                                    Ssh then. 
 
They walk ahead-ZOE stops briefly to look at TOM. There s a 
moment of communication, of human concern in the chaos- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    You okay? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I m okay. 
 
 
TOM, ELLIE, ZOE and MAISIE approach a medical-looking waiting 
room. A comfy sofa and TV can be seen inside. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I ll be back as soon as I can. They ll give you 
                              anything you need. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  We need you. 
 
Silence. ELLIE turns to ZOE, suddenly hard: 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                    Can I have a minute alone please. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  I ll just make sure everything s... 
 
ZOE takes MAISIE into the room. TOM s about to speak- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                          What are we doing here? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Just give me a chance to clear everything up here 
        and then I ll be with you-I thought you d want to 
          feel safe-I thought this was the best option. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        I m not the target, Tom. You are.  This  isn t for 
                              me. It s for you. 
 
ZOE appears at the door. TOM kisses ELLIE - who responds. A 
nurse arrives at the door to escort ELLIE inside to join 
MAISIE. The door shuts. ZOE looks at TOM-everything alright? 
TOM ignores her, starts walking- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Fill me in. 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 16 

 
                                        ZOE 
                        You re not going to like it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Try me. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                Cabinet Minister and his two daughters 
              assassinated by republican splinter group. 
                            Explosion at Longcross- 
 
                                        TOM 
        But that s Special Forces Property-it s a weapons 
                testing centre-a bloody military base- 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Multiple casualties. Two pieces of two different 
        jigsaws. Could be connected but the only definite 
          so far is that McCann s old group have claimed 
          responsibility for Michael Purefoy. They ve denied 
                    the other explosion completely. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            What s McCann saying? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          He s dead, Tom. They got to him before we did. 
 
TOM is rocked a little by this news. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        The denial could be a ruse. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Unlikely, Tom- 
 
                                        TOM 
        Discount nothing with McCann, Zoe. Even in death. 
          No other candidates for the Longcross attack? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                So far only one that merits attention. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Anyone I know? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Oh yes. This is now officially the day from Hell. 
 
 



 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 17 

The whole team has gathered to watch a CCTV feed on a loop. 
It s grainy but the camera is focused on several individuals. 
The scenes jump from time to time and we soon realise that 
this is an airport. One man grabs our attention: lean-looking, 
early 40s. Cold-eyed, menacing, but somehow inconspicuous in a 
crowd. 
 
                                      ZOE V.O. 
              Miroslav Gradic entered the UK last week. 
                                        (beat) 
          An explosion that kills a Cabinet Minister and 
        most of his family. Explosion at a secret military 
          base. Draw lines between them at your leisure. 
 
ZOE deposits three UK passports on the table. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
            These passports pitched up this morning in a 
          forgery raid near Heathrow. We ran the pictures 
        through airport security feeds. The two other men 
                      are presumably his bodyguards. 
 
The passport in question has the photo of that lean-looking, 
cold-eyed man we ve just seen. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        The Hague s Most Wanted. Bloody hell. I thought he 
                    was hiding in a bunker in Bosnia. 
 
                                  HARRY (to Tom) 
                What do you know about Miroslav Gradic? 
 
                                        TOM 
            He s been on the run for six years. Avoided 
        another joint operation with the Serbs to lift him 
              a couple of months ago. Not to mention the 
          finetooth combs of NATO, KFOR, Interpol, Europol 
                          and the Serbian militias. 
                                      (caustic) 
                            He also writes poems. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Sonnets mostly. Quite a talent. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s also got one for genocide. Gradic was a major 
              Serb Commander. He holds the UK centrally 
          responsible for the NATO attacks on Yugoslavia. 
            NATO holds him responsible for massacres in 
          Bosnia. He sees himself as a freedom fighter. A 
            political soldier in the grand struggle for a 
                                  Greater Serbia. 
 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 18 

                                        DANNY 
          No reason to come here and raise merry hell. I 
        mean, he s angry, but he s putting himself at risk 
                                  with all this- 
 
                                        TOM 
        His two sons were killed in NATO bombing raids on 
            Belgrade. They were porters in a hospital the 
          British bombed with a direct hit. I think he s 
                long past caring about his own safety. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        But he can t know about Longcross. I hardly know 
                                about it myself. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        It s not like you can look up Yellow Pages under 
                     secret military installations . 
 
DANNY leafs through a file. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m still not convinced McCann isn t linked to 
                                      Longcross- 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We both have personal issues with this matter... 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Too bloody right I do. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          So this Irish matter will now be the concern of 
        Section C. For my sake as well as yours - we need 
                            our attentions here. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Just because McCann s denying the blast doesn t 
                                        mean- 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Tom. Republican terror groups take credit for 
          anything they can. They ve said nothing in this 
          case. We have to presume this is nothing to do 
                                    with them. 
                                        (beat) 
          The Longcross incident constitutes a military 
          assault on the security of this nation. Finding 
            whoever is responsible is now officially job 
                                    number one. 
 
                                        DANNY 



 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 19 

          It was definitely a mortar, around a barracks 
        block. Gradic is a big fan of mortars. He s used 
          them on Muslim hospitals and schools. Mosques. 
                                      Houses. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Gradic ll have a fan base in the Serbian Mafia 
                                    over here. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Last time I looked we were running five different 
        surveillance operations on the Serb communities in 
            Britain. All mafia-based and all slowburn big 
                                money projects. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            It s been a while since we had any reliable 
                          product from our sources. 
 
                                        TOM 
                I need to get back to the third floor. 
                                      (to Zoe) 
                You review current Serb surveillance- 
                                    (to Danny) 
            You source all Serbian contacts in non-mafia 
                        operations. Pincer movement. 
 
TOM heads to the door. ZOE walks with him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                Tom. Are you sure you want to be here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I don t think I have a choice. 
 
TOM leaves. 
 
 
ON TV: The smouldering remnants of a house. 
 
A NEWSREADER narrates over pictures of destruction- 
 
                                  NEWSREADER V.O. 
          Michael Purefoy had only recently taken up the 
        mantle of Secretary Of State For Northern Ireland. 
            After a period as Secretary of State for the 
                  Department of Trade and Industry... 
 



 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 20 

The report continues but PULLING BACK we see it s being 
watched by ELLIE and MAISIE. ELLIE drinks tea. 
 
The delayed impact of what happened this morning is only just 
starting to kick in. ELLIE s hand starts shaking. Tea spills, 
scolds - she swears, drops the mug - 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                        Mummy, you ve made a mess - 
 
ELLIE is just staring, staring, staring at the screen. It s 
unmistakeable now, her expression: that could have been us. 
That could have been me and my little girl. 
 
Screen now flashes a family photo of the Purefoys up against 
the News Studio... 
 
                                      NEWSREADER 
        The War for Irish Unity have issued a statement, 
          apologising for what it called  the regrettable 
          involvement of innocent bystanders  but defended 
        its actions, asserting that the Secretary of State 
            was what they termed  a legitimate military 
                                      target-  
 
ELLIE pulls her little girl to her - squeezes her tight. 
 
 
TOM strides across towards the pods-MALCOLM intercepts- 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                  Section C wants a debrief on McCann. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I already passed on my report- 
 
MALCOLM shoots him a look. TOM nods. Alright. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Can you call down to the third floor - tell Ellie 
                        I ll be there soon as I can. 
 
MALCOLM nods. TOM strides into the pods- 
 
 
TOM approaches the door. Gathers speed as he realises the 
connecting door is open - and the room is empty 
 
TOM runs - dialling a number on his mobile - 
 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 21 

 
TOM arrives, breathing hard - but there s no ELLIE. GEORGE the 
security guard looks at him, not without pity - 
 
                                        GEORGE 
                        About ten minutes ago, sir. 
 
TOM s pager beeps. He s about to pick it up and smash it but 
it s a crowded area and he reins himself in. GEORGE sees this 
and gives him a look - are you alright? TOM nods, runs back up 
the stairs - three at a time - 
 
 
ZOE intercepts TOM as he returns. SAM is with her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I just got a package from Six. Gradic had three 
        narrow escapes from KFOR troops. You only do that 
          with a tip-off. And he got those tip-offs from 
                                      somewhere. 
                              (beat-he s thinking) 
                                        Tom? 
 
                          TOM (shakes off the fug) 
        Presumably sympathisers in the Serb authorities on 
                                    the ground. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        And who tips them off? Exactly. So guess who came 
        to work at the Serbian Embassy three months ago-? 
 
SAM hands TOM a report. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          This is Sam by the way, just joined the team. 
 
From TOM s black mood comes a small ray of light- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    First day? 
                                    (she nods) 
                                    Bad luck. 
 
TOM reads the MI6 report, walking away with ZOE. He looks at a 
photo of RADO. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Radovan. 
 
                                        ZOE 




 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 22 

        Rado for short. He worked in Belgrade for the then 
            Yugoslav government in signals intelligence, 
                              cipher work mostly- 
                        (for Sam s benefit-and ours) 
          Cipher work is basically typing coded messages 
          back and forth to agents in the field. And then 
                          decoding what they reply. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                  Yeah, I know. 
 
Beat. Alrighty. ZOE turns back to TOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    He s a known Gradic sympathiser. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The Serbs are anti-Gradic now. They d hardly 
                      sanction a supporter in house. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Some people find lying quite easy I m told. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You think there s a link between Rado and Gradic? 
                                    (Zoe nods) 
      If you re going to make an approach you ll have to 
                do it quickly. Get a full profile NOW. 
 
SAM moves to ZOE as TOM heads for his desk. 
 
                                        SAM 
                    I ll do that for you if you like. 
                            (before Zoe can speak) 
                      I did TC10. I m good, honest. 
 
                            ZOE (nods in thanks) 
          Call me at home. I m ready to pass out unless I 
                                get some sleep. 
 
                                        SAM 
        Oh, I can get you something for that if you want - 
 
The implication here is drugs. ZOE stares at her. 
 
                                        SAM 
                        Like a coffee or something. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I just need to lose consciousness for a few hours. 
        And I won t need any help with that either, by the 
                                        way. 
 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 23 

ZOE walks off, passes DANNY - a thought strikes - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Oh, shit, the Hotpoint guy. 
 
On DANNY s face - bollocks, I forgot too. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        I need to marry a plumber. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                You two married? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Housemates. All the downsides of marriage and none 
                                of the benefits. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  Who ever said there were benefits? 
 
 
Workers read the Standard, which has headlines reporting the 
death of MICHAEL PUREFOY. We re close on ZOE, who is wedged in 
here, face blank, lost in her thoughts. 
 
A headline on front page of the Evening Standard- EXPLOSION: 
MI5 HELD ACCOUNTABLE FOR PUREFOY S MURDER  
 
                            WOMAN S VOICE (SARAH) 
                        It is you, isn t it? Zoe? 
 
A moment of panic behind ZOE s eyes - feigning deafness. A tap 
on the shoulder. ZOE flinches, strains her head round to see: 
a grinning but slightly weasely woman (SARAH) about the same 
age as her. 
 
                                        SARAH 
                        OhmyGod ... That is so mad. 
 
                            ZOE (mental database) 
                                      Sarah ... 
 
SARAH likes to speak quite loudly - even in enclosed spaces. 
Other passengers are also thinking: Bloody Hell. 
 
                                        SARAH 
        So what s been up with you then? Not seen you for 
                                        years! 
                                        (beat) 
        So, come on, fill me in. Last I heard you were at 
              Oxford or something. You married? Sprogs? 
 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 24 

                                        ZOE 
          Nope. Single. Two cats. Civil Service. Pushing 
                                  paper clips. 
 
ZOE speaks quietly. But no volume control for SARAH: 
 
                                        SARAH 
          Good for you. I m still with Paul, you remember 
        Paul. I work for Challon and Partners? Law firm. 
                          Dunno how that happened. 
 
ZOE smiles. Hoping this woman will just go away. 
 
 
TOM enters. We spy a Police Guard standing outside. A new key. 
His door now repaired with different wood. He switches on the 
lights. It s as if nothing ever happened in here. The pain, 
the suffering. We hear: 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
          There s a bomb in the computer I brought home. 
                          Ellie, did you hear me? 
 
                                    ELLIE V.O. 
                                    I heard you. 
 
TOM tries a number again on his mobile. We get the idea he s 
been trying this all the time. 
 
He checks his ansaphone - you have no messages. He speed dials 
the phone. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Danny, I need you to get a number for me. It s 
                                unlisted. Surrey. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                                    Sure. Who? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Jane Simm. Ellie s Mum. 
 
 
At a stop. Crowds file off. ZOE s dying to get off. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Ah well, lovely to - 
 
                                        SARAH 
                          Oh, this is my stop too! 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 25 

She grins again. ZOE smiles warmly.  Excellent...  
 
 
ZOE sits at a corner table. She has a large bag of laundry 
with her. Then - a good looking guy (CARLO) walks up. There s 
a table free next to ZOE but her bag s so huge it s blocking 
the way. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                  Excuse me, is anyone sitting here- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            No, please-sit away. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                      Sitting. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Well sat. 
 
A smile - a moment. There s a connection here, one of those 
  complete-stranger-yet-you-feel-very-close moments. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                    Nice bag. 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 26 

 
                                        ZOE 
                      Isn t it. I m very proud of it. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                    You should be. It s magnificent. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
              Hello, Mrs. Simm? Sorry to call so late. 
 
 
He s on the phone. We hear an OLDER WOMAN on the line- 
 
                                        TOM 
        I just wondered if Ellie was there. It s a friend 
                                  ... Matthew. 
 
                                OLDER WOMAN V.O. 
                          Oh yes. Tom. One minute. 
                                        (beat) 
        Oh. She doesn t want to speak to you. I m sorry. 
 
She hangs up. TOM regards the phone and gently replaces it on 
the handset. 
 
 
ZOE looks at her watch. CARLO is still here, getting a round 
in. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                  Are you... with anyone? I mean here. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Waiting for a friend. He s just finishing up at 
              work-oh, here he is. Jamie. What kept you? 
 
DANNY arrives, clocks CARLO, immediately on edge. 
 
                      DANNY (immediately getting it) 
                      Sorry. Boss made me work late. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                    Oh-sorry, I just got a round in- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t worry. 
 
AS CARLO turns to get his change - a microsecond of 
downloading between spies: 
 



 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 27 

                                        ZOE 
        Boyfriend of six months. You work in the City. I m 
                              a legal secretary. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                    Here we go. 
                                        (beat) 
                    So, Jamie, you work in the City? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Yeah-trader-you? 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                Corporate finance. 
 
DANNY nods, unforthcoming. CARLO realises that he s not got 
any hope here - 
 
                                  CARLO (CONT'D) 
                    Oh - I ve got a call - excuse me. 
                                      (to Zoe) 
                            Nice chatting to you. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      And you. Thanks for the drink. 
 
As CARLO turns away- DANNY examines ZOE s face. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                                    Let s bail. 
 
She points to the door, as in: we re leaving right now. ZOE 
walks, DANNY following. A little confused. 
 
 
DANNY and ZOE walk up stairs to their corridor. They share a 
large laundry bag each. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Erm, so what put you off exactly? His looks? His 
                  charm? His money? Too single was he? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Every once in a while ... you know... it just gets 
                                      to me. 
                                        (beat) 
        Look at Tom and Ellie. They were perfect for each 
        other. And the job s made mincemeat out of them. 
        If they can t make it, what chance do the rest of 
                                      us have? 
                                        (beat) 
                          What chance have I got? 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 28 

 
They are now outside their front door and ZOE is frozen. DANNY 
senses this. He looks up at the door too. A TV is on inside. 
Lights blaze. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            I didn t leave them on. 
 
DANNY s face hardens. He places the keys in the lock - ZOE 
stands to one side - DANNY bursts in - 
 
 
TOM is here. On the sofa, watching TV. Relief from DANNY and 
ZOE. TOM raises his head. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Sorry. I let myself in- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                No problem boss. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Any progress on our mafia ops? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                They ve all been saying the same thing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                That community s hermetically sealed. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yeah. And all our best contacts were run by Tessa. 
 
A look from ZOE. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Tessa is no longer someone we talk about. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Is she being kicked out? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  You got any drink in this flat then? 
 
Alrighty. DANNY gets the point. 
 
 
DANNY is pouring wine in the kitchen. ZOE sits with TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
          One minute they re just innocent, they re safe. 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 29 

          Then you open your mouth. A few words come out. 
           I m a spy . And suddenly they re a target, a 
            liability for life, and it s all your fault. 
                You ve branded them. It s like a hex. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It s no-one s fault, Tom, it s the job and we 
                                      chose it. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I nearly killed them, Zoe. Their lives are ruined 
                        and it s all because of me. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Not true. Not true. 
                                        (beat) 
                              Where is she now? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Her mother s. 
                                      (thinking) 
        I want to be there for them. I want to be there, 
                                  and I can t. 
 
 
The team are moving fast towards the meeting room. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Look, that s what they said. When the dust cleared 
      at Longcross, they did an inventory. And there s a 
        massive shortfall in one of the munitions stores. 
          The explosion was a diversion. Gotta be. They 
              cleaned the place out. Light arms, mortars, 
              explosives and some cutting edge automatic 
                                      weapons. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      It wasn t an attack, it was a smash and grab raid. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Selling on or using? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        I know what my money s on. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        That s what I m afraid of. 
                                      (to Zoe) 


 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 30 

          He ll need to store it all. Presumably close to 
                                        home. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        The Serb community s brought the portcullis down, 
        Tom. All sources are drawing blanks. Either people 
        don t know anything or no-one s talking. We start 
        knocking on doors and they ll be fifty miles away 
                        before we finish a street. 
 
MALCOLM appears - 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    Registry s come up with something. 
 
 
INSERT - Video, on the TV screen. 
 
A hidden camera recording. Drunken men swig plum brandy, 
tooled up with weapons. One of them is GRADIC. He is agitated, 
threatening. Two others try to calm him down- 
 
                                    MALCOLM V.O. 
            This was taken in a UN safe house just after 
        Gradic s unit occupied it. This is the tail end of 
                a diatribe against Britain. He holds us 
        particularly responsible as we re always agreeing 
                  with the Americans on NATO matters. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
            As well as everything else. Why the tears? 
 
                                    MALCOLM V.O. 
        He d just been told about the death of his sons. 
 
We pull back - 
 
The video is reaching a violent climax. Sobbing. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            What s he saying? Zoe? 
 
GRADIC shoots a gun into the ceiling. Ranting. ZOE translates 
simultaneously- 
 
                                        ZOE 
            They bomb trains and hospitals with innocent 
        civilians inside and talk to us of war crimes ... 
        Role of Britain in NATO ... He s not a big fan it 
        would appear ... surprise surprise... He s vowing 
        to strike back at the heart of the enemy - that s 
            us by the way. I will only strike military 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 31 

          targets, as I have always done, only legitimate 
                                military targets. 
 
                                        TOM 
          This from a man who s butchered innocent people 
                          for the last ten years. 
 
 
A pen moves in a blur across a crossword. MALCOLM finishes it 
in five seconds flat. We see the paper is Die Zeitung. 
 
                                      SAM O.S. 
        Oh my God. How cool is THAT? Bloody hell Malcolm, 
                                    you ROCK. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              It s good practice. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    For what? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              Well ... you know. 
 
MALCOLM shyly departs. ZOE and TOM arrive nearby - SAM 
watching. ZOE shows TOM a computerised dossier on RADO. 
 
ON SCREEN 
 
We see surveillance shots of RADO leaving the Serbian Embassy, 
going into a video shop etc. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You wanted a full profile on Rado? Look at this. 
          MI6 had him under surveillance in Belgrade and, 
        lucky for us, kept it up when he arrived here and 
                      started working at the Embassy. 
 
BACK TO SCENE 
 
                                        ZOE 
        If Rado is in contact with Gradic, he s going to 
            do it in code. My guess is direct from the 
                                      Embassy. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What s the way in? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              He s a film buff. 
 
On screen again - SURVEILLANCE SHOTS 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 32 

 
RADO gets off a bus, enters a video shop, leaves a video shop. 
Mundane snapshots from a mundane life. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        He gets off the bus every day four stops early to 
            go to the video shop. He s new in town. He s 
                                      lonely. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It happens. And you re going to be his new best 
                                      friend. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  I guess I am. 
 
TOM nods, departs. ZOE smiles - heads over to SAM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      We re go. 
 
                                        SAM 
            Okay. But we have to call it something cool. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Well I was hoping you could help me with the 
                                   cool  part. 
 
SAM smiles, looks at her for a second - 
 
                                        SAM 
                You should wear more green. Suits you. 
                                        (beat) 
          I m not a raving lesbo or anything by the way. 
                                      (suddenly) 
          Not that there s anything wrong with lesbians. 
 
Off ZOE s reaction - and we see DANNY has been watching the 
exchange from nearby. We don t know it yet but he s rather 
taken with young SAM... 
 
 
RADO is here working. He s a pallid man, twenties, quite 
intense. He sits at a computer terminal, typing. Another 
female COLLEAGUE sits nearby. She looks more senior than him. 
She drains her coffee. Sighs. 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 33 

 
She smiles, takes her mug of coffee through the door - 
obviously on the way for a refill. She turns to RADO. 
 
                              COLLEAGUE (subtitles) 
                              You want a coffee? 
 
RADO nods. He watches her go. And quickly begins typing - we 
get the feeling he shouldn t be doing this. 
 
He s so into it he doesn t see his colleague come back in - 
and walk up to him - 
 
                              COLLEAGUE (subtitle) 
                              Did you want milk- 
 
But it startles him - he flips - standing up, shouting - 
walking towards her - 
 
                                RADO (subtitle) 
          Don t you EVER creep up on me like that again! 
                  Understand, bitch?! Ever! Ever! Ever! 
 
His colleague, petrified, backs off - that was nasty. 
 
 
ZOE stands on her own behind the counter in a green polo 
shirt. SAM is stocking the top shelf of vids. They re 
arthouse-style films. 
 
SAM returns to a small office in the back. ZOE smiles as a 
customer enters. They ignore her. 
 
ANOTHER ANGLE - CCTV 
 
We see that ZOE is being covered by the camera. 
 
 
He enters a cubicle. Looks at a chalk mark on the wall. This 
means something to him. 
 
He wipes off the chalk mark then reaches down in the filthy 
muck of the plumbing. Shoved into the small gap between the U-
bend and the slimey wall is a folded-up plastic bag. He pulls 
it out. 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 34 

 
 
ZOE yawns. When she looks up again, her expression changes 
just slightly. RADO is here, looking around, mystified. 
 
                                        RADO 
                      How long have you been open? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Not very long. 
 
A video on display catches his eye - it s a rare foreign art 
house film. His eyes light up... 
 
                                        RADO 
          Ah! You know. I ve been trying to get this at 
                Blockbuster for months. How s business? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Oh, you know. Quiet. 
 
 
The camera feed is broadcast on a screen. Watched by TOM. 
There s the same frenzy of activity behind him. 
 
 
There is sweat on HARRY s brow. TOM flicks through urgent 
faxes - some showing scenes of destruction. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          First an army base. Now a munitions transport. 
        Both in highly classified locations. They re not 
                                  on any maps. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I ve ordered a trawl of MOD vetting files, plus 
          the personnel records. If this is coming from 
              inside then someone s getting paid for it. 
                                      Bigtime. 
 
                                        TOM 
              All military sites now on maximum alert. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                I ll brief the Chief of Defence staff. 
 
 
A MAN strides purposefully ... He s 20s, hard as nails. As he 
passes a window we now see this is less corridor and more a 
church - a dark little vestry passage. 
 
He approaches a door guarded by two heavies. They step aside, 
knocking lightly. Another heavy answers - he has a gun. 
Beckons the MAN inside. 
 
 
The HENCHMAN stands expectantly. Out of the shadows comes the 
face of MIROSLAV GRADIC. There s an eerie calm about him. The 
conversation is in english- 
 
          HENCHMAN (naturalised English with Serb accent) 
                        A success. Congratulations. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
        I am flattered you think so. So very flattered. Do 
                        we have word from Radovan? 
 
                                      HENCHMAN 
                                    Nothing yet. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
            Sometimes that boy is an idiot. Let me know as 
        soon as communication arrives. Not a MOMENT later 
                                        - yes? 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 36 

                                        (beat) 
                                    Work to do. 
 
The HENCHMAN nods - of course. He is clearly put in his place. 
Gradic turns to walk back through the room. We follow him into 
 
A LARGE VESTRY 
 
And on the floor, the weapons of war. This is like God s 
armoury. The HENCHMAN has followed - a little puzzled. 
 
                                      HENCHMAN 
            I don t understand. We have enough. More than 
                                      enough- 
          Gradic turns on him - more menacing than ever: 
 
                                        GRADIC 
              You re not a medical man? Not a student of 
                                      anatomy? 
        Gradic presses him hard in the centre of his chest 
        - it s starting to hurt. But Gradic is not letting 
                                        up... 
 
                                        GRADIC 
          The heart muscle is divided into four chambers, 
          two on the left, and two on the right side...
       If you strike at the heart, better it s in the 
            left. To the right, you can t be sure they re 
          really going to die. A bullet can lodge in the 
            heart muscle. It can miss the three coronary 
          arteries altogether. So. When you strike at the 
              heart, you must do so with ... Precision. 
 
Finally he removes his finger. HENCHMAN coughs. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                      Our aim is precision. Always. 
 
                                      HENCHMAN 
            But we have enough weapons to start a war. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                    Who said we were starting a war? 
 
 
MONTAGE sequence of RADO coming into video shop, clocking 
ZOE s name badge, chatting with her. 
 
CROSS FADE TO: 
 
RADO comes into the shop, with ZOE behind the counter. 
 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 37 

                                        ZOE 
              Hello there. How was the film last night? 
 
                                        RADO 
                                    Very good. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                And a good day at the office I trust? 
 
                                        RADO 
                          Not bad. Not bad at all. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          What is it you do again? 
 
                                        RADO 
                      I ve never told you what I do. 
 
And suddenly the atmosphere changes. 
 
 
DANNY is watching a monitor closely. Wearing a mic. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Too much too soon, Zo. 
 
                                ZOE (ON MONITOR) 
              I thought you said you were in banking or 
                                      something. 
 
                              RADO (ON MONITOR) 
                                No - I didn t. 
 
                                ZOE (ON MONITOR) 
              Sorry. We re new, just trying get to know 
                              customers - you know. 
 
RADO eyes her. She turns away, takes some old tapes and puts 
them on the storage shelves behind her. It s clear RADO makes 
a decision to forgive. 
 
                              RADO (ON MONITOR) 
                    No, it s alright. I understand. 
                                        (beat) 
                        I m a journalist, actually. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Nicely done mate. 
 
 
ZOE and RADO are still here. 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 38 

 
                                ZOE (innocently) 
          Can t you work at home or something? If you re 
            just sitting in front of a computer all day? 
 
                                        RADO 
          I don t have a computer at home. Anyway, for my 
          work, I sometimes need ... It s a very special 
                                      computer. 
 
A customer brings a video to the counter - ZOE deals with it 
as she talks to RADO. A preferential treatment that does not 
go unnoticed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            All sounds very flash. 
 
RADO shrugs, a little embarrassed. He watches a video that s 
playing - The Russia House or some such. 
 
                                  RADO (CONT'D) 
          I m not a fan of spy stories. They always make 
        espionage seem so exciting ... if you ask me it s 
          probably quite the opposite. The actual job, I 
                                        mean. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Can t be more boring than this one. 
 
                                        RADO 
        I don t understand you, Kate, you talk of changing 
          your direction but you clearly also do nothing 
                                      about it. 
                                        (beat) 
        One day, you will quit this job. Get another one. 
                          Well paid. You have a CV? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Not really. 
 
                                        RADO 
        You re kidding. Here I am talking to you and all 
        the time you re clearly insane. You don t have a 
                                        CV? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Nope. Sorry. 
 
                                        RADO 
                    Then we must change that at once. 
 
RADO fiddles with his cufflinks. ZOE clocks it. Smiles. 
 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 39 

 
MALCOLM is in the b.g. ZOE smiles as COLIN hands her a box. 
Opens it. A pair of cufflinks. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                      You wanted blue, didn t you? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        It s his favourite colour. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                    You sure he s going to wear them? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          If a girl you liked gave you something to wear, 
                    would you put it on the next day? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            She wasn t asking you. 
 
ZOE smiles at COLIN - told you so - and leaves. MALCOLM avoids 
COLIN s gaze. 
 
 
SAM is already behind the counter when ZOE walks in - SAM 
tries to make meaningful eye contact with her. ZOE, not quite 
understanding, is about to speak when - 
 
                                        RADO 
                                        Kate! 
 
ZOE jumps but maintains cool. RADO had been bending down 
behind a central display unit. 
 
                                        RADO 
                      You re running late, I think. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Shit... please don t tell anyone. 
                              (she moves closer) 
        I m trying to get another job. I just nipped out 
          on my break to get all the details and stuff. 
 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 40 

                                        RADO 
                        Kate! You make me so proud! 
                                  (Zoe flinches) 
                                        Sorry. 
                                    (whispering) 
                                    Very proud. 
 
ZOE produces a crumpled A4 sheet. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              What do you think? 
 
                          RADO (tries to be nice) 
            Um. Well. Good CV, yes. But, you know. Your 
                                  presentation - 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m not really very good at layout and stuff like 
                  that. Actually completely useless- 
 
                                        RADO 
          You know, I could re-do this for you at work. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Would your work let you do that? 
 
He winks - and then smiles broadly. An idea. He bends down to 
open his briefcase. As he does, we see what ZOE sees - her 
schoolfriend SARAH has just walked in!!! 
 
She s not seen ZOE yet. But when RADO re-emerges - 
 
                                  RADO (CONT'D) 
                      In fact I have a better idea - 
 
- ZOE has disappeared. RADO looks around. SARAH is oblivious, 
looking for a vid. 
 
We find ZOE behind the shelving, behind the counter. She s 
hiding. Controlling the obvious panic in her eyes. Fuck! 
 
 
TOM and DANNY are watching this with mild concern. The CCTV is 
merely pointed at the empty counter. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          What the hell s going on? 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                    Old school friend, ten o clock. 
 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 41 

                                        TOM 
        Alright, Sam? Sam. Come out front, be the manager, 
                                    ignore Zoe. 
 
 
ZOE, in the shoplifting mirror, can see that SARAH has 
disappeared behind a promotional movie display - and seizes 
her chance. Pops out from behind the shelving, beckons RADO - 
now totally confused - to come behind the counter. 
 
                                        RADO 
                                What s going on? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        That girl, she s going out with my ex-boyfriend. 
        She s decided I m the Devil Incarnate or something 
          ... Last time I saw her she tried to throttle 
          me... a total loon. If she sees me I ll be here 
                                    all night. 
 
                                        RADO 
                              You want me to ...? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          No, no - I - sorry - oh God how embarrassing is 
                                        this - 
 
She s faking hysterical laughter now. RADO, in on the joke, 
and feeling good about it, catches the infectious giggles. And 
takes advantage of the enforced intimacy: 
 
                                        RADO 
        Hey. Hey. So, look, this better idea. We can have 
          a drink back at my flat. I could go over your CV 
          with you. Maybe try and improve it. What do you 
                                        say? 
 
As he does, SAM appears from the other side of the shop. 
Pretends to stack shelves. Approaches SARAH. 
 
                                        SAM 
          Were you looking for something in particular? 
 
                                        SARAH 
                        Have you got Pretty Woman? 
 
                                        SAM 
        We re not that stocked up on Hollywood right now 
          to be honest. I d try one of the bigger chains. 
 
                                        SARAH 
                        Oh - well. Thanks anyway. 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 42 

 
And she leaves - SAM, triumphant, winks at the CCTV. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Don t do that! 
 
SAM realises her mistake and keeps her head down as she 
disappears through another door. RADO passes, very pleased 
with himself. 
 
Looks back at ZOE - 
 
                                RADO (re: Sarah) 
                                    All clear. 
 
For him this is like base camp on the Matterhorn. He puts his 
video away with a small gesture.  Won t be needing that 
tonight!  
 
                                        RADO 
                      I ll pick you up later, okay? 
 
ZOE nods-smiles. RADO leaves. 
 
 
TOM drives, he s on speakerphone. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m driving down to Ellie s parents. She won t 
                          speak to me on the phone. 
 
 
As Tom floors the accelerator. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
            Okay, but I need to speak to you urgently- 
 
                                        TOM 
        Just get the ambulance Malcolm. And another sentry 
                          to Danny s old position. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  On their way. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What s the problem? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                  It s not good, Tom. It s not good. 
 
 
Meanwhile, ZOE helps herself to peanuts. Soft lighting. 
Scatter cushions. On the stereo - some godawful Serbian MOR 
soft rock. RADO is pulling out some, if not all, the stops. He 
pours a clear liquid into two shot glasses. 
 
                                        RADO 
                                    Sljivovica... 
 
He passes her a small glass. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Same to you. 
 
                                        RADO 
          It s Serbian brandy. Made from plums. Try it. 
                                Zivili! To life! 
 
They down the shot. She coughs - strong is not the word. We 
might notice that in fact she s only taken a small sip - and 
is hiding the contents of the glass with her hand. She has 
feigned the entire effect. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            That s ... good stuff. 
 
                                        RADO 
          It s homemade. It all is, you know, the  good 
          stuff  at any rate. You can t buy it anywhere. 
 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 45 

 
MALCOLM, tense as hell, reading from a large file. Still on 
the phone to TOM - 
 
                                      TOM (VO) 
        No, no, look, Gradic s sons were both killed. His 
                brother has a daughter who s disabled. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        His brother s first wife had a son. Okay? Rado is 
        Gradic s nephew. He s not just a sympathiser Tom, 
            he s family. He was a footsoldier for him in 
        Croatia in the early 90s. He s killed for him. We 
          need to tell Zoe before she goes anywhere with 
          that man. I mean... If he finds out who she is, 
                                        Tom... 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
          Get someone round there NOW. I m coming back- 
 
 
ZOE clinks another glass with RADO. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Too many more of these and I ll be singing 
                                      folksongs. 
 
                                  RADO (smiling) 
                        That s what usually happens. 
 
RADO clears some papers from the seat next to ZOE. In this 
small moment ZOE disposes of the rest of the drink in a nearby 
plant. 
 
                                        RADO 
        This country. Always the same story. You have this 
                    need to demonise. Look at this - 
 
One paper from the pile has a headline:  GRADIC EVADES CAPTURE 
IN BOSNIA . 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      I don t really read the papers. 
 
                                        RADO 
        Either we Serbs are monsters, or everyone in the 
        Balkans is as bad as each other. Do I look like a 
              monster to you? Look into my eyes. Do I? 
 
He s scary like this. 
 



 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 46 

                                        ZOE 
                                Of course not. 
 
                                        RADO 
        You re wrong. I am a monster. We are ALL monsters. 
          Somewhere. But we are no worse, or better, than 
          anyone else. We are human beings. We contain... 
                                      multitudes. 
                                        (beat) 
                                    I m sorry. 
                                      (brightens) 
                              You like the music? 
 
It s horrible. ZOE nods. 
 
                                        RADO 
            I hate it. It s all I have. I ve played it to 
                                death, you know? 
                                      (drinks) 
      So - okay, before too many - take out your resume, 
                                your CV - what? 
 
ZOE s looking at him shyly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I was going to wait but you re being so nice - 
                    thank you for doing this for me. 
 
She takes out the cufflinks. 
 
                                        RADO 
        Kate... I don t know what to ... that s so kind of 
                                        you. 
 
She shrugs. He examines them. His brow furrows slightly. A 
question on his mind? ZOE s brain races - tries to anticipate 
it - 
 
                                        ZOE 
            It s not just for the CV, you know, it s for 
        everything really. You re the first person to give 
          me confidence in a long time. The first person 
        who s made me think I could actually do something 
              with my life. Sorry, this is embarrassing. 
 
                                        RADO 
          Oh, no - it s - thank you. I m sorry. They re 
                                      fabulous. 
 
RADO s been touched deeply by this small gesture. 
 
                                  RADO (CONT'D) 
                        I will wear them every day. 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 47 

 
                                        ZOE 
                        Sure, sure. You hate them. 
 
                                        RADO 
                        No. I love them. I promise. 
 
ZOE looks at her watch - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Oh... I really have to go. 
 
                              RADO (disappointed) 
                                      So soon? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        My sister s staying with me at the moment, she ll 
                                be wondering - 
 
                                        RADO 
                  You never told me you had a sister. 
 
                                ZOE (playfully) 
        Well there s a lot of things you don t know about 
                                        me. 
 
                                        RADO 
                                  You re wrong. 
 
We should be thinking - oh fuck. 
 
RADO is actually quite an intimidating person when he goes 
silent. As he does right now. 
 
Totally, totally silent. ZOE keeps her poise. 
 
                                        RADO 
                      I know a lot about you. Kate. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Oh really why? 
 
                        RADO (brightening-a joke!) 
          Because I have your CV! I know everything about 
                                        you! 
 
They laugh. ZOE edges to the door. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Well I wouldn t be so sure about that. Most CVs 
                          are full of lies anyway! 
 



 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 48 

                                        RADO 
                              Only the good ones! 
 
She s almost out now. RADO smiles. 
 
                                        RADO 
            I will have this for you tomorrow. I promise. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      ...Okay. 
 
And she s gone. RADO shuts the door with the look of a knight 
who s just received his quest. 
 
 
DANNY and TOM sit in a booth. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          They really were kids, Tom. Nothing to do with 
                        Rado, I m sure of it. Ouch. 
 
The curtain slides back to reveal VICKY WESTBROOK. Consultant 
in A&E and a lover of danger. 32 going on 15. The briefest of 
moments when she clocks TOM, but otherwise, she s 
professionalism personified. 
 
                                VICKY (to Danny) 
                            Okay ... Mr... Palmer? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        He may have broken a rib. 
 
VICKY shoots TOM a sidelong glance. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                      You re the boyfriend are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            Well. There is a God. 
                                    (to Danny) 
                      May I have a look please - ? 
 
VICKY starts examining DANNY. TOM gets up, moves to the edge 
of the booth. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            Expecting anyone else? 
 
She means TOM s paranoid loitering. 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 49 

 
                                        TOM 
                                Queen of Sheba. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                Yeah. She s always in here. Gammy leg. 
                      (to Danny-total professional) 
        There s a possible fracture here. I m going to do 
              a few tests now, check you out, alright? 
                                        (beat) 
        That was one hell of a shoeing. Tough guy like you 
        shouldn t get hurt like this. Big lads were they? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Huge. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          What do you do, just go around in a big T shirt 
                        that says  Please Mug Me ? 
 
DANNY nods, watches TOM watching her. 
 
 
DANNY enters. ZOE is busy cleaning the kitchen - doesn t 
really notice his injuries. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m getting too good. I think that s the problem. 
 
On her face, stress - no winding down here - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              At what? Cleaning? 
 
ZOE disappears into the bathroom. 
 
                                      ZOE O.S. 
        I m a born liar. I just took advantage of a lonely 
                                        man. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        You know what I m going to say to that, don t you? 
 
                                      ZOE O.S. 
                    I know. End justifies the means. 
 
ZOE appears in her dressing gown. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  It just freaks me out now and then. 
 



 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 50 

                                        DANNY 
        That lonely man, by the way? He s Gradic s nephew. 
            He s a seriously nasty piece of work. He s a 
          killer who deserves everything we throw at him. 
 
She moves back through to the living room - and realises: 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      What the hell happened to you? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Got the shit kicked out of me by a gang of four 
                    year olds. Thanks for noticing. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          I m sorry - I m sorry - 
 
She hugs him. He winces. 
 
 
TOM listens to ELLIE s answer phone. 
 
                                    ELLIE V.O. 
          Hi, it s Ellie. I can t take your call at the 
                    moment so please leave a message 
 
He hangs up. Puts the phone down. Curls up on the sofa and 
pulls a sheet over him. 
 
 
There are no windows. There are pictures of a Serbian football 
team on the wall. 
 
RADO sits by a very hi-tech looking computer. Some words in 
Serbian to a COLLEAGUE who leaves. We push in on his sleeves 
as he drinks his coffee... 
 
... And the nice new blue cufflinks he s wearing... 
 
 
ZOE, DANNY, COLIN and SAM watch the screen. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          The cufflinks should pick up all his keystrokes 
                              when he s typing. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  How s it going to understand them? 
 



 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 51 

                                        COLIN 
        Because he s typing something that we know - Zoe s 
        CV. It s our control document. Her CV s got every 
        letter on a QWERTY keyboard covered, plus symbols. 
                                      (To Zoe) 
        We had to give you a fairly colourful past by the 
        way - nothing personal. It s just... you know. The 
                                      alphabet. 
 
ZOE smiles. 
 
We hear typing. On COLIN s screen, screeds of text start to 
appear. To begin with, it s 0s and 1s. They then start to 
transform - a document on another screen shows ZOE s CV, typed 
out. There s some interpolation going on between the two 
documents. 
 
They watch the typing. Soon, the cursor starts aping  Kate s 
CV  to the letter. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                  He s doing it. 
 
 
HARRY beckons TOM over. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The PM s flying back from France. He wants to 
            convene COBRA. Away from Whitehall and prying 
                                        eyes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Why s he convening now? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Any sooner would have been an overreaction. Any 
        more would be avoiding the issue. The fact is two 
            attacks have been made on military bases and 
            vehicles. That s enough to convene in anyone s 
                                        book. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I d agree with that. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          So do the Cabinet. And I need some good news to 
                                tell them, Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Tell them we re working on it. 
 
DANNY passes as HARRY leaves. 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 52 

 
                                        TOM 
                            How s the MOD looking? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Overworked and underpaid. 
                                        (beat) 
          There s a lot of records Tom. If there s a mole 
              they ll be hiding under a ton of paperwork. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I ll be in the meeting room. 
 
 
TOM on the phone, alone. Framed by the MI5 symbol. We hear an 
ansaphone beep - 
 
                                        TOM 
        You have to understand something. I can and will 
          do anything to put things right. I love you. I 
                                just... love you. 
 
                        ELLIE (picking up - tears) 
                                        Tom? 
 
SAM slides the door open - 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Tom? 
 
TOM shoots her a look - she closes the door again. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
          Maisie s been having dreams, Tom. Bad dreams... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Meet me. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                I m begging you. 
 
A long silence. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                        Okay. 
 
 



 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 53 

TOM approaches a big group gathered around ZOE s desk. He s a 
little energised now, there s a small glint of optimism 
shining in his eyes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  What ve we got? 
 
She hands him a sheet of paper. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          This looks like the most likely message. Rado 
                  typed it first thing this morning. 
 
                            TOM (grabs printout) 
                   Short Let Wanted by non smoker in 
          flat/houseshare. Area NW10 preferred. Price: up to 
                                180 pounds pw.  
 
                                        ZOE 
            Rado s communicating with Gradic through the 
          newspapers. Classified ads. The messages have to 
                            be some kind of code. 
 
                                        TOM 
          If a new message has gone out today we have to 
              presume an attack will not be far behind. 
 
DANNY arrives carrying a vast printout. To ZOE: 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          What do you make a year? 
 
                                    ZOE (what?) 
                    I m scale D. Thirty two thousand. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Not quite enough to afford a  300,000 mortgage 
                              with the Halifax. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Danny? 
 
                              DANNY (re: printout) 
        MOD personnel files, okay? There s a lad here. Jim 
        North. Same pay scale as you. But if you look at 
        his private banking he s getting a lot of washing 
                  done. Cash, lump sums. Very amateur. 
                                        (beat) 
                      He works in Defence Logistics. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Munitions support? 
 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 54 

                                        DANNY 
      My thinking exactly. You look back further and the 
        guy s in serious debt. No family money either. So 
                  this cash is coming from somewhere. 
                                        (beat) 
                        I think I ve found our leak. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                What about this? 
 
She means the ad. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I ll deal with it. 
 
TOM checks his watch - it s all very tight now. 
 
 
RECEPTIONIST answers the phone. We PUSH IN on it- 
 
                                    RECEPTIONIST 
                    Evening Standard good afternoon. 
 
                                MALE VOICE (JIM) 
                            Classified pages please. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: A computer screen, textualizing the following: 
 
                              MALE VOICE (CONT'D) 
        It s just that I wasn t sure if it was a misprint. 
                              Oh, okay, thanks- 
 
 



 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 55 

We re close on a computer screen as the call is traced. We 
see:  CALLER ID: 7946 0003 London W1  
 
PULLING BACK 
 
DANNY s eyes widen as he reads. TOM and ZOE behind him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                MOD direct line. 
 
They exchange a look - well whaddya know. DANNY dials a phone. 
It s picked up. 
 
                                FEMALE VOICE (D) 
                              Jim North s phone. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Get him in. 
 
 
A very scared young man sits in this bare space. This is JIM 
NORTH. A suited MOD clerk. TOM is already here with DANNY. 
 
                                        JIM 
        They just wanted low level stuff really. I work in 
        the admin department of defence logistics, so it s 
            pretty easy to get your hands on paperwork. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Who wanted them? 
 
                                        JIM 
          Freedom of Information s important. These guys 
        were putting together a map of secret Britain. And 
        I m sort of with them, actually. It s going to get 
        published, so there s nothing you can do about it. 
 
                                        TOM 
            That s what they told you, is it? You didn t 
            bother to check up on them at all. You just 
        blithely handed over Government secrets without a 
          second thought to who you were handing them to. 
 
TOM keeps his cool. 
 
                            JIM (slowly realising) 
        I didn t see anything wrong in what they wanted - 
                                      oh shit. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  How did they make a first approach? 
 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 56 

                                        JIM 
                              Through my - friend. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Who is he? 
 
                                        JIM 
        Serbian dude in Hammersmith. He put me onto them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        And he would be your rabbi? 
 
JIM starts to panic, as the realisation of what he s done - 
and it s consequences - sets in. 
 
                                        JIM 
                    He s my dealer. He s my dealer. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    How did you make the exchanges? 
 
                                        JIM 
        Dead drops. We never met in person. We agreed on a 
          code. They d put classified ads in the evening 
        paper. If the ad included a fake phone number we d 
        agreed on, then I knew it was for me. So then I d 
          decode the ad. The first letter of each word in 
        the ad, you write down a number. I put the numbers 
        altogether, you ve got a page on the A-Z and a map 
        reference. That was the place and time of the dead 
        drop. Usually a public lav. I d leave the papers 
      on the day, get the cash the next. It s simple but 
                                    it works. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What papers exactly? 
 
                                        JIM 
            Admin paperwork, like I said. Army maps. Arms 
            shipments. Transport. Whitehall itineraries. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Are you aware of any other people using this 
                                      method? 
 
                                        JIM 
                                        No. 
                                        (beat) 
                      What s going to happen to me? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Bad things. 
 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 57 

                                        JIM 
                              I want a solicitor- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Shut up. 
 
DANNY and TOM head for the door - 
 
 
Every desk has mountains of Evening Standards. Everyone is 
going through them. Each desk has an alphanumeric table to 
hand - each letter corresponding to a number. A large phone 
number is written on a whiteboard. 
 
SAM stands next to a large map of Britain. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Somewhere in these ads are coded messages. Some of 
          the messages have been used to communicate the 
        location of dead drops with a mole in the MOD. But 
      we think there are other messages - in particular, 
          messages between a Serbian contact, and Miroslav 
              Gradic. We are probably looking for a grid 
        reference, a place and a time, anything that could 
      be used to communicate a location on a map. Ignore 
          any ad that does NOT conform with the template 
            we ve given you. Pass all your work on to Sam 
                          here. Quickly now please! 
 
 
HARRY climbs out of a waiting car. Armed military men in 
combats stand guard. HARRY dashes across the drive towards 
a stately home - that screams: fuck-off important meeting held 
here. He enters and climbs the stairs. 
 
 
Silence as everyone mucks in. Turning pages. MALCOLM is 
double-checking his working. He doesn t like it. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  Bloody Nora! 
 
TOM looks up as MALCOLM arrives at his desk. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        We re presuming they use the same code for Gradic 
                  as they did for Jim North, correct? 
                                    (Tom nods) 
                    What if they re not dead drops? 
                                        (beat) 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 58 

                          What if they re targets? 
                                  (showing Tom) 
          Four ads decode to a grid system in addition to 
        the ones you indicated. But these ones aren t A-Z 
        or Ordnance Survey. They re military. Two letters 
                                and ten digits. 
                                    (upset now) 
        Two of them decode to the exact locations of the 
                                      attacks. 
 
TOM s brain is jumping ahead- 
 
                                        TOM 
                            What about the fourth? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        It s today s. It s the site of the COBRA meeting. 
 
Silence. 
 
                                        TOM 
            All along. It s all been building to this. 
 
DANNY and ZOE arrive. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s been arming himself. But that s not what this 
          is about. It s a means to an end. Strike enough 
          military targets within the British Isles, and 
        there s one group of people you can guarantee will 
                                get together... 
 
                                        ZOE 
          COBRA. Prime Minister. Chief of Defence Staff. 
                        Heads of all armed forces. 
 
                                TOM (continuing) 
        Secretary of State. Heads of Five, Six... It s not 
            just a national emergencies committee, it s 
                        practically a war cabinet... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Striking at the heart of the country. Isn t that 
              what he said? In the surveillance video? 
 
                                        TOM 
                    He s taking them all out. He s - 
(shouting) 
CAR! I need a CAR! 
 
Total urgency as TOM sprints past the pods - 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 59 

 
HARRY walks in. The great and the good are standing around, 
waiting for the meeting to begin. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Apologies for the delay. Let s get started, shall 
                                        we? 
 
Everyone moves to their seats. 
 
 
A mortar nestles amongst terrifying hardware. Combat boots 
flank the ammunition boxes. Bazookas. 
 
 
HARRY is here, sits with the great and the good of the 
country. This is as serious as things get. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        If we could all quickly proceed to agenda one, to 
            the item marked EYES ALPHA 7... page 12... 
 
 
TOM drives, a man on a mission. We hear DANNY over the 
quadraphonic speaker system. 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
        Is your GPS working, Tom? I can t get a trace on 
                you-hang on, this ll take a minute. Out. 
 
TOM s mobile goes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Hello? 
 
                                    ELLIE V.O. 
        I stayed as long as I could. Longer than I should. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Ellie? 
 
                                    ELLIE V.O. 
        Even if you d turned up, you know - I would have 
                                asked you this. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Ellie, there s something very big going down right 
                                        now- 
 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 60 

 
ELLIE drives at speed, talking on her phone. MAISIE in the 
backseat, sleeping. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  I would say so. 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
        Switching red channel Tetra frequency Bravo Five, 
                                        Tom. 
        TOM leans to the communications panel. Presses a 
                                      button. 
 
                                  TOM (to Danny) 
                        I just need a second mate. 
                                  (into phone) 
                Ellie. I need to speak to you tomorrow. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                      And I need you to choose. Now. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Are you driving? You shouldn t be talking and 
                                      driving- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        I am and so are you by the sounds of it - the job, 
            or us, Tom. It s the only way it can work. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I know you re upset- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
            I m well past upset! I can t do it any more. 
              Hearing the doorbell and getting a shot of 
          adrenaline up my spine. Hearing your voice on the 
        phone and not knowing if you re in Portsmouth or 
        Jerusalem or bloody Timbuktu and not being able to 
          ask you, or talk about the weather or the news, 
        because that would date stamp our conversation... 
        I need all the stablility I can get right now Tom. 
                                        (beat) 
        You don t know what it s like. Being part of it, 
          you have no idea. The not-knowing. It hurts. It 
                                  hurts so much. 
                                        (beat) 
        But I love you Tom. Maisie and I love you and we 
          need you to choose, to give us any chance. You 
                          need to choose right now. 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 61 

                                        TOM 
                                      Ellie - 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  Now. Please. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I can t do that this SECOND- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
              Then you ve made your choice. I m sorry. 
 
And she hangs up. 
 
 
TOM grabs the phone, tries to dial, drops it. There s an icy 
rage about him, a grasping for control... The phone clatters 
by his feet. He reaches down for it - 
 
Comes back up as his hand guides the car across the centre 
line of the road- and oh christ he s veering onto the wrong 
side of the road - a lorry blasts its horn - !! 
 
 
Sipping coffee and reviewing the safety of the land. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          While I agree with you Sir, there is an urgent 
              matter that takes precedence, I m afraid - 
 
 
TOM keeps driving. DANNY heard on the quadraphonic car speaker 
phone- 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
                            Tom are you alright? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Close shave. You found me yet? 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 62 

                      Yep. Three junctions from now. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Did you call ahead? 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
        Yeah. I spoke to Harry. He says to put your foot 
                                        down. 
 
 
TOM walks purposefully up the stairs. And then, the lights go 
out. 
 
TOM continues up the stairs. 
 
 
And as our eyes adjust to the gloom we see GRADIC s team with 
nightvision goggles. They split up. 
 
Eventually, they too climb the stairs. 
 
 
And we re confused. Because in here, the lights are blazing. 
And the meeting continues. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Apologies again for the last minute change in 
          plans, but they were unavoidable I m afraid. I 
            hope you don t find the new venue completely 
                                    disagreeable. 
 
 
GRADIC and his henchmen enter the conference room. In the 
darkness, GRADIC sees a lone figure (TOM) sitting at the 



 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 63 

table. GRADIC is confused, having expected something 
different. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                          (to henchmen, in Serbian) 
                                    Kill him. 
 
The henchmen raise their guns. 
 
As we cut to a close up of TOM s face, we hear bullets being 
fired and gun flashes reflected on TOM s face. 
 
The lights blaze on. PULL BACK from GRADIC, to reveal two dead 
henchmen lying on the floor, and four SAS men surrounding him. 
 
And there at the abandoned conference table, a solitary 
figure. TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Sit down. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                              I prefer to stand. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You ve been running. A long time. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                                  A long time. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You must be tired. 
 
TOM pulls a chair out. GRADIC eyes the shadows where the glint 
of special forces machine guns can just be seen. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
                                    Of course. 
 
 
TOM and GRADIC sit at the table. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
         They are as much a part of the military machine 
          as the army . Wesley Clark said that when you 
            bombed our TV station. A  legitimate military 
        target . And what about hospitals? What about the 
          schools? I remember being there. Flesh smells so 
          bad when it s burnt, you know. Very strong. It 
                              never leaves you. 
 



 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 64 

                                        TOM 
                                  Yes. I know. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
        My sons died in their workplace. From a bomb that 
        knew its targets were innocent. So tell me this. 
          How can you sit there and talk of war crimes? 
 
TOM just stares. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
        All the righteous indignation of the Empire. Your 
          weapons that arm the world against one another. 
        Your propaganda machine that cries a just war when 
          you turn the Danube into a toxic waste dump. I 
              kill only my enemies. I am an honest man. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The British soldiers you killed weren t your 
          enemies. Neither were the women and children you 
                    bulldozed alive into mass graves. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
        There were collaborators. They would have killed 
                        me when I turned my back. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Women and children. 
 
Something s happening to TOM now and it s scary. 
 
                                        GRADIC 
        People venerate females and infants. They are born 
          of woman and depend on her. They see only the 
                    Virgin Mary and the Babe in Arms. 
 
GRADIC laughs ruefully. 
 
                                GRADIC (CONT D) 
        They see innocence. But they are mistaken. A woman 
        or a child, they are all the same to me. If they 
            are guilty, if they are my enemy, then they 
                                  deserve to die. 
 
And something snaps in TOM. A groundswell of blind rage 
propels TOM at GRADIC s throat. Pins him down on the floor, 
elbow tight against his Adam s Apple. 
 
GRADIC can only make a hollow sound as TOM presses harder- 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
                                    Um, sir - 
 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 65 

TOM just keeps pressing. He s going to break GRADIC s neck if 
he s not careful - 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
                  Sir they re ready for you outside- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Can I have your weapon? 
 
Silence. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Your weapon. 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
                                I heard you, sir. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Give it to me. Please. 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
                    I don t think I can do that sir. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Hand over your weapon! 
 
TOM s crying. And just as quickly as it arrived, the volcano 
of rage ebbs. TOM stands up. Sees GRADIC rolling around, 
hoarse, freaked out - 
 
TOM could kick him in the head right now and probably kill 
him. The SAS OFFICER senses this and stands in the way. 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
              I didn t see anything here, sir. Alright? 
 
TOM wipes the pain away. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Yes you did. 
 
                                    SAS OFFICER 
            Well, sir, I must disagree with you there. 
                                        (beat) 
                        I ve seen this man at work. 
 
The SAS OFFICER grabs GRADIC and pulls him to the door - 
 
Soon TOM is left alone. 
 
 
HARRY and TOM sit. 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 66 

 
                                        HARRY 
          There s no justice anymore, Tom. Not the way the 
                  world plays it. Nuremberg. Truth and 
          Reconcilation. There has not been a single unified 
        and successful prosecution of international law. 
          Do you know how much that one Libyan Lockerbie 
                        suspect cost this country? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      An enormous amount of money. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      An enormous amount of money. 
                                        (beat) 
                  They re sending Gradic to the Hague. 
                                        (beat) 
        Way the tribunal s going, he could die of old age 
                          before his case comes up. 
 
TOM sits in stony silence. That release of anger was good. 
 
                                        TOM 
          The cells are like a hotel, you know. They have 
                        cable TV and table tennis. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  I heard about what happened in there. 
 
                                        TOM 
          And you re concerned about my emotional state. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I couldn t care less about your emotional state. I 
          care a lot about whether you re able to do your 
                                        job. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        I am. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Well then. That s good news. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What about McCann s group? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          No word from Section C. And no news is bad news 
            where they re concerned. We ll have to brace 
            ourselves for the long game on that one. Their 
          petty little Irish wargames will always be with 
                                        us. 
 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 67 

Silence. Then: 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Do we still have those passports? 
 
 
RADO makes a call to ZOE s phone - in vain. He really liked 
her: 
 
                                        RADO 
        ..Can you check again please? The number is 07700 
                                    900002 ... 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
          That number is not valid on the network sir... 
 
                                        RADO 
          But I ve called it, I ve spoken to someone on 
                                        it... 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
        I m afraid you must be mistaken sir. That number 
                          has yet to be allocated- 
 
                                        RADO 
                          Kate... Her name is Kate- 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
                            Goodbye sir, I m sorry- 
 
The phone goes dead. A knock at the door. A heavy, official 
knock. Voices outside. A Police light flashes in the window. 
RADO is rumbled. 
 
 
TOM gets home. A moment. He s been crying. 
 
But now, a strange power about him. Calm. 
 
CLOSE ON: A box 
 
The photo of ELLIE and MAISIE. Nestled on an old jumper. 
 
Another old jumper falls - obscuring their smiles. 
 
The box is shut. 
 
END OF EPISODE 




















 69