 
Darkness. Three Hi-Tech Burglars drop silently down from a loft 
access, above. All wear night vision goggles and fabric covers 
clipped over their shoes. A bedroom door is open--there s no-one 
home, by the looks of things. 
 
GOGGLE POV--the stairs: 
 
Red beams shine down from points around the architrave. Motion 
detectors, everywhere. (NB BURGLAR TWO is female). 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
                    Watch it. Blow the main circuit. 
 
Burglar One plugs a tiny generator into the mains. Switches it on-
-a small  tink! --and the sensor lights go off--but downstairs the 
alarm is still beeping in warning. 
 
Burglar one dashes downstairs-- 
 
 
Large fridge. Family photo stuck to the door shows a couple with 
their small boy (OSBORNE, CLAIRE, SAMMY). Next to it--an alarm 
box. Burglar One enters a code--the warning beeps stop. 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
                    Get that main fusebox repaired. 
 
                                        (beat) 
 
      Oi, Skipper. Window cages. Motion sensors. Wireless 
          alarms. Your Mr. Osborne s a real security nut. 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
                    Tell me something I don t know. 
 
                              BURGLAR THREE O.S. 
                          I m banging your sister. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 2
 
Burglar One points to a door off the kitchen with a huge computer 
lock-! BURGLAR TWO shakes her head. He moves off. THREE comes out 
of the kitchen area holding a small device. 
 
                                  BURGLAR THREE 
      Bunch of countermeasures in here. Spectrum analysers, 
      EM detectors--he s not a spook, this bloke, is he? 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
              Skipper, the kit we brought can t do burst 
      tranmission. With that lot he ll find anything we put 
                                in here tonight. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                                Abort. Come home. 
 
A SERIES OF BRIEF STACCATO SHOTS--CLOCKS BEING RESET 
-- Oven clock; 
-- Microwave clock; 
-- Wall-mounted digital clock; 
 
DOWNSTAIRS - SAME TIME-- 
 
BURGLAR TWO is about to re-set the main fuse box. 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
                    Resetting main fuses in 3--2--1-- 
 
She slams the switches up--the alarm systems come to life again... 
and, just like any alarm system, it s warning the occupants 
there s 30 seconds to get out of the building  
 
                              BURGLAR TWO (CONT D) 
                Thirty seconds, count off please skip. 
 
 
Feet disappear up into the loft. BURGLAR TWO is left, about to 
lift herself up--glances right--main bedroom is visible. On the 
bedside table, a flashing alarm clock. 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
                        Missed one. How re we doing? 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
                            Twenty three seconds. 
 
Alarm warning continues downstairs. BURGLAR TWO runs to the-- MAIN 
BEDROOM 
And re-sets the timer. Struck by a thought-- 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 3
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
            What time does target get up in the morning? 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
                                      Get up? 
 
                                    BURGLAR TWO 
                            I m setting the alarm! 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
                        Just stick a blown fuse in. 
 
BURGLAR TWO opens a wallet to find neatly-arranged fuses. One side 
is labelled  DEAD , the other  LIVE . Nimbly, she takes the plug 
apart, slams a dead fuse in. Closes up. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                          Fifteen seconds. Move it! 
 
Plugs the clock back in--now blank and justifably so. BURGLAR TWO 
runs off as the warning beeps rise in volume. 
 
IN THE CORRIDOR 
 
The loft access door slams shut--and the motion detectors flick 
off--once more, the house is impenetrable. 
 
In the shag pile... nestled on a tuft... a new 13A fuse. 
 
MAIN TITLES 
 
0833 
 
OSBORNE drives. The paper is on the seat next to him. Large 
headline reads:  RACE WAR LOOMS . 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
        We ll just have to make sure the Runner does what 
        she s paid for. Osborne s a background man, always 
                            keeps his hands clean. 
 
OSBORNE pulls up outside a warehouse that is headed  Osborne Waste 
Management . 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
      A miracle considering how much shit passes through his 
                                      fingers. 
 
 
Tom and Danny getting dressed, post-shower. Almost done. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      So you think a runner s the way to go? Send her up 
        there, befriend our source and Bob s your racist 
                                        uncle? 
 
                                        TOM 
      He s so paranoid, even if he never found those bugs, 
        my guess is he wouldn t be saying much. Meanwhile 
        we ve got sources in every far right group in the 
      country. And every one of them has namechecked Brian 
                      Lyndon in the last two months. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Sorry to throw this back at you, but so what? He s                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 5
 
                Osborne s business partner, fine, but-- 
 
We follow them out along a corridor. People move in and out of 
offices as they push us down the corridor... 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
    He s been visiting, flashing the cash, but that s all. 
                                    Nothing new. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Everything new. Come on, you ve seen the reports. This 
        is large scale schmoozing. Something new s on the 
      cards, it s national, it s happening through or with 
    or because of Osborne, and unless we find a runner who 
    can sweet-talk someone close to him into spilling some 
    quality beans, we re not going to find out what it is. 
                              Or how to stop him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  No chance of getting Lyndon on side? 
 
                                        TOM 
    No chance. They go way back. No chance of infiltration 
        either, given his talent for paranoia. We need good 
                    old fashioned human intelligence. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Won t find any of that in here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You d be surprised. 
 
They punch in codes and enter the Grid-- 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Anyway Tom, I ve always said, never trust what people 
            tell you. Especially if you re paying them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Fair enough. Nice jacket by the way-- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Thanks--oh. Yeah. Hilarious. 
 
He realises TOM s point. They both walk off. 
 
JED and HELEN watch them go, then press play on the video... We 
push in on the footage: 
 
INSERT - VIDEO FOOTAGE, MOS 
 
Bright light illuminates a macabre scene--DV footage shows sand, 
some vehicles... and corpses: some covered in sheets. Some not.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 6
 
Lying in lines on the shores. TV symbol in the corner shows 
 mute . The silence is eerie. Then: 
 
                                    MALCOLM O.S. 
      The traffickers chucked them all overboard when they 
      saw the Customs patrol ship. Strong onshore current 
    washed all the bodies up on the same stretch of beach. 
                                Kent, I believe. 
 
                                      JED O.S. 
                        Serious Customs cockup, eh? 
 
ADMIN ISLAND - SAME TIME 
 
JED, HELEN and MALCOLM watch the beach footage on a small TV. Very 
covert, like it s something they shouldn t do. It s upsetting 
stuff. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Customs sent this ahead with part of the file. They 
                                  want our help. 
 
                                        HELEN 
          Would you give your life s savings to get here? 
 
                                        JED 
      Depends where I m coming from. And how many volts the 
      Minister for Torture s putting through my gonads, of 
                                      course. 
 
TOM and DANNY can be seen approaching the Large Meeting Room. 
MALCOLM moves to join ZOE and HARRY, who are also converging. 
HELEN watches with longing--she s not part of it. JED ejects the 
video as TESSA arrives, hands a stack of papers to HELEN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
          Join MI5, they said. Multiple opportunities for 
        advancement, they said. Protect national security, 
                                    they said. 
 
                                        TESSA 
      Double sided, if you don t mind. And it s Eyes Alpha, 
            so try not to look at the interesting bits. 
 
                                        JED 
        Andrew Dorland called from Customs. He ll be a bit 
                                        late. 
 
TESSA nods, spies the tape and file on a desk. Grabs both. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                Mine I believe. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 7
 
                                        JED 
      You re welcome to it. And it s not romantic comedy, I 
                                    warn you. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  No, it s horror. That s what it is. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                We need to move quickly on this, okay? 
 
 
Close on a printed screen grab of CLAIRE. 30s, pretty. black eye. 
The grab is from a CCTV camera in a corner shop. 
 
TOM, DANNY, ZOE and MALCOLM sit with a tracksuited woman in her 
30s. RUNNER--rough Essex accent--warm, not grating. DANNY tries to 
pick a padlock throughout the following. 
 
                                        RUNNER 
                              You re telling me. 
 
TOM points to CLAIRE on the screen grab. The RUNNER picks up a 
file. Retrieves another photo: a stocky man in a suit, 30s. BRIAN 
LYNDON. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
      Bryan Lyndon. Business associate to Osborne. Manages 
          the waste disposal business and potentially a 
                  collaborator. Avoid like the plague - 
 
                                        RUNNER 
                              (reading the file) 
        Jesus, this is hardcore. He s all over the place. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Which is why you re sitting here now. We ve got a 
      potential race war on our hands. Osborne s past, his 
        contacts, his business partner, his money-- they re 
                      all pushing the needle to red. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Plus there s Bill Watson. 
 
On screen--a press shot of WATSON (sincere, 40s). Danny clicks 
through a number of surveillance shots--all showing OSBORNE and 
WATSON together outside. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Independent MP for Chigwell. 
 
Then: a matriculation photo. OSBORNE and WATSON are students. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 8
 
                                  DANNY (CONT'D) 
                  They met fifteen years ago. College. 
 
HARRY and TESSA appear at the door--beckon ZOE. ZOE looks to TOM--
he nods. She walks off. DANNY watches her. 
 
                                        TOM 
    Old muckers. Watson did the debating, Osborne just did 
          the baiting. But right now, they re walking on 
      eggshells, not using the phone, only talking in public 
        places. Combined with our failed bugging expedition 
          last night, we ve not been getting any closer. 
 
DANNY pushes over the image of CLAIRE and her black eye-- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Lucky for us he s beating his wife. 
 
TOM shoots DANNY a look. DANNY tries the lock--it opens. HARRY 
knocks and enters-- beckons TOM out. 
 
 
TOM and TESSA, mid-argument. HARRY refereeing. ZOE nearby. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                    It s a huge Customs operation-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I m sure it s enormous-- 
 
                                        TESSA 
      --with large liaison potential, I m overcommitted on 
                                    my side-- 
                                    (to Harry) 
      Zoe knows all the players in this area. She s dealt 
      with many other cases on this route, in liaison with 
      Customs. She speaks three languages. I need her on my 
                                        team. 
 
                                        TOM 
      And I need her help on this race-hate campaign. I ve 
      got a runner all set to go up and recruit a source. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                            Playing the race card? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    (to Harry) 
        I don t want to send a runner into bandit country 
        without the personnel to back them up. Customs can 
                                cope without us. 
                                    (to Tessa)                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 9
 
                            What is it? Smuggling? 
 
                                        TESSA 
      Yes, Tom, doubloons from the Spanish Main. We think 
      it s some men with wooden legs and parrots on their 
                                      shoulders. 
                                        (beat) 
        Illegal Immigration. Human traffic. Customs need a 
        hand. In the light of current events, Tom, calling 
              them twitchy would be an understatement. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Sorry Tom, you ll have to make do. 
 
HARRY smiles and ushers TESSA and ZOE away. 
 
                                        TESSA 
              I m borrowing her, Tom, not stealing her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      (steel) 
                    That s right, Tessa, you re not. 
 
DANNY comes out of the meeting room. 
 
He watches as ZOE goes to collect some files. Catches DANNY 
watching her. Bites her lip--nerves. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Don t give me that rabbit in headlights crap. You ve 
            got the professional horn and you know it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              No, really, I m just pleased to see you. 
 
DANNY leaves. ZOE turns to see MALCOLM, standing nearby--a little 
too quietly, perhaps. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                        And you, Malcolm. And you. 
 
 
Darkness. SAMMY (4, cute) can t sleep. He pads along an upstairs 
landing in his pyjamas. Lights are on downstairs. 
 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 10
 
SAMMY walking towards that big door with the computer lock. It s 
ajar. Pushing open the door-- 
 
OSBORNE stands with three other men. BRIAN LYNDON is instantly 
recognisable from the MI5 photos. So is WATSON, now casually 
dressed. A new face is NICK--late 20s, clever-looking, average 
build, very reverential as BRIAN waves a small anti-bugging 
device. 
 
                                        NICK 
              Do we have to do this every single time? 
 
                                        WATSON 
                        I vetted Nick myself, Robert. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                          Brian won t be a moment. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                                      Arms up. 
 
BRIAN continues passing the device over NICK. Done. Picks up an 
envelope on his desk. It s weighty. Then, calmly, he picks up 
WATSON s briefcase, opens it, and drops the envelope in. A 
transaction has taken place. 
 
                                        WATSON 
                                        So. 
                                        (beat) 
                            What s all this about? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                  Come on Bill. 
                                      (smiles) 
                                  You know me. 
 
The door squeaks--OSBORNE whips round--sees SAMMY, eavesdropping. 
OSBORNE s smile disintegrates. SAMMY runs for it... OSBORNE erupts 
from his chair--chasing him through to 
 
THE KITCHEN 
 
Where SAMMY starts wailing in fear of what s to come-- 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT'D) 
                      What s the golden rule? Sammy? 
 
Bear-like arms scoop up SAMMY-- spanking him hard. OSBORNE turns--
finds himself face to face with CLAIRE. Steeled. She gently takes 
her son and puts him down. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                        Don t touch him. Ever again.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 11
 
                                (quietly, to Sam) 
                      Go back to bed, sweetheart.   
                                (Sammy runs off) 
    You might think you can touch me. But you lay another 
                                finger on him-- 
 
OSBORNE s blood rush is short lived. That s a temper alright. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
    There s a reason he can t go in there. Alright? Do you 
                                    understand?! 
 
CLAIRE flinches, expecting a blow. Now OSBORNE melts-- 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT'D) 
                                        (beat) 
                      I m sorry, darling. I m sorry. 
 
He holds her face... although he looks like he could pack a punch, 
he touches her with amazing tenderness. He turns and walks back 
towards his office. CLAIRE watches him go. 
 
 
OSBORNE rubs his eyes in frustration. 
 
                                        WATSON 
        Leeds. Hundreds of miles from my own constituency. 
      Having recently warned the House about rising racial 
                              tensions in Bristol. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
            And being proved right I seem to remember-- 
 
                                        WATSON 
        Yes, which is starting to earn me the nickname of 
          Nostradamus... I m coming across like a prophet. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                      (suddenly) 
      Do you know why there s never been a revolution in 
    this country? John Wesley. He was a Methodist. He went 
      around preaching. Got everyone sitting on their hands 
        in church when everyone in France was going nuts. 
 
                                        WATSON 
                                    Your point? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
        Most people don t do anything in this country on 
          principle. And most people won t kick up a stink 
      unless a) they re told to, or b) it s in their faces 
                              and it hurts them.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 12
 
                                        (beat) 
            It s in their faces now, Bill. It s hurting. 
 
                                        WATSON 
                                  I know that. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
    This time last year no-one knew what a Muslim was. Now 
      everyone s looking at people in the street. Where s he 
      from, what s he doing... And they re suddenly seeing 
        things they never noticed before. Asylum seekers 
        clogging up the hospitals. We have a window, right 
          now. A great big window just opened. People are 
          starting to realise. But they re not going to do 
        anything til they re told, Bill. They re British. 
      Everyone s crying out for a voice of reason. Someone 
      who can make them realise they re not alone, they re 
      not on the extreme. That they re the majority, that 
        it s their country, and it s alright to get angry. 
        Face it, Bill. They re crying out for someone like 
                                        you. 
 
He pops open a bottle of whisky. We re pushing tight on NICK s 
shirt. And the pen in his shirt pocket... 
 
 
TV monitor displays the Customs footage--the darkness, the bodies. 
TESSA and ZOE view it impassively. Next to them is Customs officer 
ANDREW DORLAND. He s 20s--with egg on his face. 
 
                                        ANDREW 
                          (it hurts him to say it) 
    After a major incident like this, they ll change their 
      route, their landing sites, their crews... We ll have 
        to start over again for next time. HM Customs and 
          Excise would appreciate a spot of consultation. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                            You mean help, Andrew. 
 
                                        ANDREW 
                              I do. I mean help. 
 
 
TOM and DANNY exit with the RUNNER. She gives a tired wave and 
departs. TOM and DANNY head back to TOM s department. 
 
TOM grabs his stuff, clears his desk-- Locks his document safe. 
 
                                        DANNY 
    We re asking her to rat on her hubby. I mean she might                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 13
 
        do a Dolly Parton or whatever. Stand by her man. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  Tammy Wynette. 
 
MALCOLM passes on his way out. TOM and DANNY grab their coats and 
head off, passing HELEN and JED-- 
 
                                        TOM 
      It s been a time honoured way in for centuries. And 
                I ll take whatever I can get right now. 
 
Catches HELEN s eye--eavesdropping. TOM continues out to the 
lifts. DANNY smiles at HELEN, follows. JED nudges HELEN on. 
 
                                        JED 
                        I ve got this, Tinkerbell. 
 
HELEN grins at JED--thanks--grabs her coat. Follows TOM. 
 
 
HELEN joins TOM and DANNY, and COLIN, a technician in his 
shirtsleeves, carrying a pot plant, as they leave. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Stop beating yourself up Danny. With that amount of 
      countermeasures he d never have risked saying anything 
                              juicy in the house. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      It s not that, it s the clock. We almost screwed up 
                                    the alarm. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                    You could have worked backwards. 
 
Beat. TOM s interested--DANNY s quietly teasing. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT D) 
    For the alarm. From what I, um, happened to read... He 
        leaves for work at 0845. Any man with kids is most 
      likely keen to get out of the house soon as possible. 
      Give half an hour for a shit shower and shave and ten 
      minutes for breakfast, I d say he s an eight a.m. man 
                                      myself. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Would you. 
 
                                        HELEN 
      Yeah. Most men don t need two hours in the bathroom,                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 14
 
                  Danny. I know it s hard to believe. 
 
                                        TOM 
      So I take it the flat share s going well, you two? 
 
                                        HELEN 
            Fun but expensive, Tom. Fun but expensive. 
 
 
TOM is having coffee at the end of the night. ELLIE is rushing 
around, trying to finish up for the evening in the kitchen. TOM 
watches her buzzing around like a force of nature. He smiles to 
himself -- loving her like this. 
 
Waiters clean tables. MAISIE draws on the next-door table. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                Matthew, look-- 
 
TOM gets up and looks over her shoulder-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Maisie, that s lovely-- 
 
The picture is a crayon piece titled  My Family . There s a house, 
a girl called  MAISIE , a big-headed stick woman called  MUMMY  
and a tall, big-nosed SCRAWL called  MATTEW . 
 
ELLIE comes over from the kitchen, drying her hands. She looks at 
the drawing too--coos over it. But covers her embarrassment-- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
              She was doing families in school today... 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Is my nose really that big? 
 
ELLIE smiles. Strokes MAISIE s hair--sniffs it--not happy. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
    Oh, Maisie, your hair... I m sorry darling, I m going 
          to have to wash it again tomorrow... Up to bed. 
                                      (to Tom) 
    Poor thing. I keep her up half the night and stink her 
      hair up. Soon as the smell s gone it s back again. No 
                        surprise round here, I guess. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  That ll teach you to serve fajitas. 
                              (on Ellie s look) 
      It s handy, though. Living above your office. Isn t                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 15
 
                                        it? 
 
It s not okay at all and TOM knows it. ELLIE shrugs. The bill 
arrives. TOM reaches for his wallet-- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
            Ah-ah--how many times. No more of this paying 
                                      nonsense. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Sorry, still can t hear you-- 
 
He removes his wallet--and a strange look flashes across him for a 
second. TOM replaces his wallet. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                        Finally, the man sees sense. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                Are you going to stay with us Matthew? 
 
ELLIE looks at TOM--just what she was going to say. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                        I think she means tonight. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        How do you feel about that? 
 
ELLIE checks MAISIE s not looking, kisses TOM passionately. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                        I ll take that as a maybe? 
 
ELLIE takes TOM s and MAISIE s hand, and they walk, like a family 
unit, towards the stairs... 
 
 
ELLIE sleeps. Wakes suddenly--sees TOM, creeping out the door... 
Guilty face. ELLIE pretends to be asleep. The door clicks shut. 
ELLIE s eyes open once again. 
Far away thoughts. 
 
 
HARRY s in a tuxedo. He sits with TOM. Everyone s desks are 
totally clear. JED, on night watch, reads nearby. 
 
                                        TOM 
    It looks like the runner won t be out of hospital for 
    a week or more. She was five times over the limit. Hit 
                                a minicab. Idiot. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Didn t know she was a boozer, did we? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          She kept it well hidden. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        We train our officers well. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Claire s planning to leave Osborne, she talks about 
        nothing else on the phone. We let this window pass, 
      she might go through with it and our best chance is                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 17
 
            gone for good. We have to get in there now. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      Danny s no good to us in that environment--obviously. 
      And much as it pains you, Tessa s operation is high 
                          priority. So Zoe s out too. 
 
TOM looks at HARRY. Resigned to it now. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
      You re the only one who knows the case as well as the 
        runner. But we can t withdraw the cover story now. 
      Neither am I going to let you go alone, single males 
      in child care situations stick out like sore thumbs. 
        The couple who run the centre. Are they removable? 
                              ...In a nice way. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I ll need a wife of course. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Wouldn t have thought that s too difficult. Dishy 
                                catch like you. 
 
 
DANNY is up late, in his suit--ready for action. Checks his watch. 
Knock at the door. DANNY springs up-- opens it. TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Nice place. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Just signed the lease. Six months. 
                                        (beat) 
                              She s in the shower. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                No sugar for me. 
 
DANNY is puzzled--then gets it. He rushes off to put the kettle 
on. The generous host. 
 
                                    DANNY O.S. 
                    Sorry the place is such a mess-- 
 
The place is like a show house. TOM allows himself a smile. 
 
 
TOM, HELEN and DANNY are sitting in the living room. 
 
                                        TOM 
    There s a long tradition of admin staff helping out on 
              operations. You sure you want to do this? 
 
                                        HELEN 
            That s why I ve taken all the courses, Tom. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  And come top in all of them. Swot. 
 
                                        TOM 
      This isn t a typical source recruitment. We re trying 
    to move fast. Engineer the relationship, break cover, 
                              move to close. Okay? 
 
HELEN nods--taking it all in. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    How far d you want the backstops? 
 
                                        TOM 
    We say we ve got an aunt in Lapland, she better bloody                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 19
 
                                    be there. 
 
HELEN is secretly thrilled she s actually living her dream. 
 
 
HELEN sits with TOM as he goes over CLAIRE s file. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Claire s always buying computer magazines in the 
        newsagents. So the IT training is not a whim, it s 
      part of what we imagine to be a concerted effort on 
      her part to take control of her life. She outwardly 
      supports her husband s racist stance on the world, but 
        that might be more through her own insecurity than 
    actual conviction. You might say she s never known any 
                                      better. 
 
SERIES OF SHOTS--DOCUMENTS MONTAGE 
 
-- Flash! Flash! TOM and HELEN s mugshots are taken. 
-- driving licences, passports, all mocked up on screen... 
 
 
Artists and image manipulators put the touches on identities. 
Printers of different shapes and sizes churn out receipts, airline 
tickets, cinema stubs. We approach a booth-- 
 
DANNY stands with HELEN as a credit card is displayed on screen. 
COLIN is running through details. 
 
                                        COLIN 
      Credit rating. Not too bad, not too good. Should back 
                              up your limit okay. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        That the real CCR database? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                Yep. And that s a real credit rating. 
 
DANNY watches closely. Then he notices a mascot on the desk. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Palace supporter? 
                          (Danny points to himself) 
                                  Junior squad. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                      Seriously? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 20
 
                                        HELEN 
      Don t I need all that junk for my purse? Receipts and 
                                        stuff? 
 
DANNY goes to a gigantic filing cabinet, removes a bag. Hands it 
to HELEN. It s full of receipts, tickets, etc. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Best wallet litter money can buy. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                          It better be, sunshine. 
 
She s smiling--but the nerves are starting to show. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN sit with DANNY. Tea and tired eyes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Brothers? Sisters? 
 
                                        HELEN 
        Only child. Love kids. Can t wait to start my own 
                                      family. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Is this you or her? 
 
                                        HELEN 
        Me, sweetheart, darling. Susan. Your loving wife. 
 
DANNY lets a smile escape. HELEN s going gangbusters. 
 
Close on a table: 
 
Neatly laid out, two folders. One,  SUSAN WILKES . The other, 
 STEVEN WILKES . Photos of HELEN and TOM adorn them. HELEN takes a 
wedding ring out of her folder. TOM takes one out of his. Both put 
them on. DANNY watches. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    I now pronounce you man and wife. 
 
Through the windows, we can see dawn creeping over London. 
 
 
TOM drives, HELEN sits up with him. Nerves. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                      Call in. Midnight on the dot. 
 
      Each minute late is code for our perceived level of 
        risk. One minute late, minor problem. Ten minutes, 
                    SOS, we re screwed, come get us. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Urgent message waiting? 
 
                                        HELEN 
    The cat in the van. Only in emergencies and we ll know 
                              it when we see it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Where d you two meet then? 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                        Again? 
                                    (Tom nods) 
                  Gift shop in Jersey. Five years ago.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 22
 
                                        (then) 
        I love turtles, you see. And in the back they had 
                      these little models of turtles. 
                  (Tom s eyes widen--this is all new) 
      So then Steve came in and tried to buy the one I had 
          my eye on--a bright green loggerhead I seem to 
      remember. And we fought over it and he relented and it 
    all started from there. We ve been at loggerheads ever 
                                  since. Okay? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    (amused--then:) 
      My Uncle lives in Jersey. I ve never seen stuff like 
                  that for sale. Where was the shop? 
                                (she hesitates) 
                      North or South? East or West? 
                              (more hesitation) 
      If you go off-piste be sure you ve got enough detail 
                                to back it up. 
                                    (she nods) 
                          Lovely impro, mind you. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                        ..Did you like the turtles? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      (chuckles) 
                              Love those turtles. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN look ready for work. Wedding bands. They move around 
the house clutching their  litter  bags. 
 
TOM pins supermarket reward cards on the noticeboard. He places a 
photo of TOM and HELEN (brilliantly mocked up) on the mantelpiece. 
HELEN watches TOM work--tries to copy him-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I m very happy. Thanks. 
 
HELEN nods--her nerves are showing again. But she s fighting-- 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
      We re just making friends with her. That s all, okay?                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 23
 
    Fate s just thrown us all together. Like it was always 
                                  meant to be. 
 
 
Pulling back: a newspaper is on ZOE s desk, acting as a temporary 
coaster for an empty cup of coffee. ZOE has several files open. 
TESSA arrives with posh chainstore coffee. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                I thought you might like one of these. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      (teasing) 
                                Are we allowed? 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Budget might just stretch. How goes the struggle? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                (faux innocent) 
      Oh, simple-- the UK stops selling the guns that arm 
    the regimes that drive people here in the first place. 
                      But since we can t do that-- 
 
TESSA looks at her oddly. Which is what ZOE expected. She turns 
round to a large map of Europe spread on another table. Draws 
lines with a marker pen as she talks. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
      If Customs was moving to intercept the boat here-- 
                                    (marks map) 
      Then it s possible that these human traffickers were 
        using a route that the Dutch heroin posse know and 
                  love. Good routes are hard to find. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Which means we ll know someone who knows someone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      Possibly. There s a few people in NCS and Ostend who 
                                owe me favours. 
                                      (stares) 
                        How many were on that boat? 
 
                                        TESSA 
                    Forty. Mostly women and children. 
 
ZOE shakes her head, sips her coffee--face registers surprise. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
                                      Problem? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 24
 
                                        ZOE 
              No--it s decaf. It s what I always drink. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                      (I know) 
                              Oh. How fortunate. 
 
ZOE is smiled at by an acolyte. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN are busy. TOM attends to a line of computers, around 
which sit happy Essex wives. HELEN is sitting with kids, reading 
them all a story. Every so often, TOM looks at the door. And HELEN 
looks at TOM. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN shut up for the night. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Fingers crossed for tomorrow. 
 
 
TOM comes downstairs to find HELEN carrying two steaming plates of 
pasta. TOM s expression says: oops. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Oh--I ve just ordered a curry. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                        Well I ve just cooked this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      ..I ll... call them back then. 
 
A beat. TOM heads back upstairs--HELEN, satisfied, amused, starts 
to lay the table. 
 
 
TOM takes the two empty bowls to the kitchen area. HELEN follows, 
bringing the glasses. TOM leaves the bowls in the sink, with the 
pot HELEN used to cook with. Squirts soap on it, fills the sink 
with water. Starts to walk out: 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 25
 
                                        HELEN 
                Not going to leave them there are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      (stares) 
                              Yes, dear. No dear. 
 
HELEN smiles, walks up the stairs. TOM stares at the stairs, then 
back at the sink. 
 
 
HELEN sits in bed, reading. Hearing pots being put away 
downstairs. Smiles to herself. 
 
 
TOM dials his mobile, in bed. Clock reads 12:00. He pulls out the 
picture MAISIE drew. Stares at it. 
 
                                    PHONE VOICE 
                                    Sunny Cabs. 
 
 
The  Sunny Cabs  operator is here, in the bowels of Thames House. 
Other operators talk quietly in the b.g. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
      The name is Wilkes, I ll have to cancel the cab for 
                                      tomorrow. 
 
                                    PHONE VOICE 
                                  Very good sir. 
 
 
TOM hangs up. Stares at the drawing. Turns out the light. 
 
 
OSBORNE and others are having a drink (wine). BRIAN isn t 
drinking. OSBORNE is finishing a sweep of his house. Bug detector 
is being passed over fittings etc. Door buzzes. OSBORNE glances at 
the entryphone-- 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                    Let him in. 
 
A thuggish man goes to the door. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 26
 
                                        BRIAN 
                              Heading up tonight. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                    Then have a drink--it s Barolo. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                            Not when I m driving. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                    Call yourself a business manager? 
 
OSBORNE hands him a huge clip of cash. NICK arrives, escorted by 
the thug. BRIAN is a little slow putting the cash away, and NICK 
arrives to witness the cash exchange. 
 
                                        NICK 
                  Didn t mean to interrupt anything. 
 
NICK smiles at OSBORNE--who gestures to him. Stand there. BRIAN 
takes out the bug sweeper and sweeps NICK. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                  What do you want, my friend? Really? 
 
                                        NICK 
                            Really? I want to help. 
 
Titters from the group. NICK holds his nerve. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                      Then go and put the kettle on. 
 
                                        NICK 
    I m behind you. I know Bill has his doubts sometimes, 
                but -- I agree with everything you say. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                      Well that s all very touching. 
 
CLAIRE s at the connecting door. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              I m going to bed. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                        How s your email my darling? 
                                  (to the men) 
    My wife is going to master the international internet.
  
                              (Claire turns to go) 
                                      Hold it. 
                (the strength of his voice stops her)                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 27
 
                            Turn around a minute. 
 
CLAIRE turns to face the men. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
                                  (to the men) 
      That top doesn t do them justice, does it? Five grand 
      each they cost me. Man buys his wife a tit job, least 
    she can do is show them off to his mates. Come on, up. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                      Robert? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                  Lift-your-top-up. 
 
The menace in his voice is terrifying. CLAIRE s inured to this. 
Numb, slow, she lifts up her top to expose her chest. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
                        Lovely. My beautiful wife.    
                                  (she leaves) 
                          Don t say goodnight then. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                                So we all set? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                    (to Nick) 
                              Can I borrow a pen? 
 
NICK takes out a pen from his trouser pocket. The pen in his front 
pocket stays put. This is very underplayed. OSBORNE takes the pen 
and writes something on scrap of paper--hands it to BRIAN. The 
lads make their way out. OSBORNE hands the pen back to NICK, who 
also leaves. OSBORNE moves to 
THE KITCHEN 
where CLAIRE is getting a glass of water. Trembling. He leans over 
her, pressing her against the sink with a kiss. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT'D) 
                                    I love you. 
 
He exits. CLAIRE twists away--the trembling becomes a shake. On 
the board behind her: TOM and HELEN S flyer. 
 
INSERT--SECURITY CAMERA FOOTAGE 
 
Dark, stark, black and white. Night-time. A small woman is seen 
walking across a car park. This is from quite far away-- 
 
                                  REPORTER V.O. 
      This exclusive police camera footage shows the brutal                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 28
 
      events that sparked this night of carnage. The woman, 
        an Asian nightshift worker, was attacked by white 
      youths in Leeds city centre--covered in petrol, then 
                                  set alight-- 
 
Group of young guys approach her. One carries a cannister. Push 
her to the ground. 
 
 
And we find BILL WATSON here, looking reasonable and smug-- 
 
                                        WATSON 
          I think actions speak louder than words and it s 
          obviously clear what the problem is. In spite of 
      recent moves to stem the tide of immigrants--there s 
        already enormous resentment within the indigenous 
                                      community-- 
 
                                INTERVIEWER (V.O.) 
                  So you re not condoning these acts-- 
 
                                        WATSON 
      Of course not, I condemn violence on both sides but 
    the provocation of this race war came not last night, 
          but out of the last three decades of unchecked 
                      immigration into this country-- 
 
 
CLARIE walks in, sees TOM. A moment of confusion. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                      Are Pete and Jessie around--? 
 
                                        TOM 
      Jessie s Mum s not been too well. They kept it pretty 
      quiet I think. Best they re both down there though. 
 
CLAIRE nods. HELEN arrives. Immediate rapport with the kid. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                          I m Steve by the way... 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 29
 
 
TOM sits with CLAIRE and several other women at PCs. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ll be back in five minutes, try and finish your 
                            contact list by then. 
 
TOM walks towards the loos--then heads for the exit. 
 
 
TOM stands with HELEN, as CLAIRE walks back in, flustered. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Everything okay? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
        Bloody puncture. I ll just have to call the AA or 
                                      something. 
 
                                        TOM 
        No, I ll do it for you. If you like. No problem at 
                            all. You got a spare? 
 
CLAIRE looks at HELEN as if to say... is it okay? HELEN smiles. 
CLAIRE hands her keys to TOM, who walks outside. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                            Man of many talents! 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              I like to think so. 
 
CLAIRE and HELEN left alone now. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                    So how long you two been married? 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                  Three years... 
 
 
COLIN sits in front of top-flight AV equipment. The pot plant from 
earlier is also here. 
 
DANNY stands behind COLIN, watching the screen: various phone 
conversations with mugshots. BRIAN s is visible. On another 
screen, footage of the Leeds riot. 
 
                                        COLIN 
      Brian Lyndon--the sales guy? Talk about Mr. Boring. 
      He s a big fan of curry and sex chat lines, but apart 
        from that no mention of Osborne. He s been trained 
                                        well. 
                                        (beat) 
                  Unlike your other guy, of course.  
                              (on Danny s look) 
        The tap on the politician s office? Watson was it? 
          Osbornes all over the place. Listen--this is his 
                              private office line. 
 
He calls up a window--a soundwave. Selects it, presses  play : 
 
                                NICK S VOICE (D) 
        ..wondering if Mr. Osborne was available at all... 
                                  it s Nick... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        That s not Watson s voice. 
 
                                        COLIN 
      Probably cos it s Nick Thomas. I voice-matched him to 
                                      be sure. 
 
 
DANNY and HARRY by a desk. A local paper called the Romford News 
has a headline:  COULD LEEDS HAPPEN HERE? . 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          He s just an assistant. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        He s calling Osborne direct. Blabbing on the phone 
                          like a teenager in love. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    What about the partner? Lyndon? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 31
 
                                        DANNY 
    We recced his flat--just the same. Countermeasures and 
                    Fort Knox. He s been trained up. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You re doing facial matching on the riot footage I 
                                      presume? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            No. Mr. Facial Hair s doing facial matching. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I think you ll find his name is Colin. Surprised 
          you re so ready to judge on appearance, Daniel. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Yeah, well. I m used to it. 
 
HARRY walks off. 
 
DANNY looks around--checks his watch--taps a few keys--we see he s 
on a secure web payment site... buying his mother a present - a 
Franklin Mint plate... DANNY removes his credit card subtly from 
his shirt pocket and types in his number. 
Submits. Waits. On screen:  CARD DECLINED--PLEASE CONTACT YOUR 
CARD COMPANY . DANNY hides the application from view. 
 
 
Saturday crowds. TOM and HELEN pass a security guard. TOM glances 
at the guard. The guard glances back. Collusion? 
 
IN THE DISTANCE 
 
CLAIRE shops with SAMMY by her side. Gucci bag round her shoulder. 
Suddenly CLAIRE screams-- a black teenage boy has grabbed her 
purse. Runs expertly through the crowds. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                          My bag! He s got my bag! 
 
TOM springs into action--a chase, but short lived-- as TOM tackles 
the boy. Grabs the bag back. The security guard arrives -- 
restrains the kid. 
 
Officer starts to lead the boy away when the kid wrestles free and 
runs off--empty handed. 
 
The guard now shoots after the kid. TOM is left with the purse... 
looks around  helplessly ... CLAIRE arrives. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 32
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Claire? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
      Oh I don t believe it... Steve! Thank you so much... 
                          Thank God you were here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                (watching chase) 
                        He s not going to catch him. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                Coloured you see. They re fast runners. 
 
A shopper shoots her a look as he overhears this. Walks off. 
 
                                CLAIRE (CONT'D) 
      Oh, let me buy you two a drink--if you ve got time? 
                                      Please. 
 
TOM and HELEN look at each other--sure, why not? 
 
 
The black boy stands with the security guard, chatting happily. 
The guard removes a large wad of notes, peels off a fifty and 
hands it to the kid. They part company. Done deal. 
 
 
-- TOM, alone, in his room, on the mobile. Staring at the picture 
MAISIE drew: 
 
                                        TOM 
      I d like to cancel a cab for tommorrow morning. Name 
                              is Steven Wilkes. 
 
[This shot again, from different positions.] 
 
TOM hangs up and dials another number. His body language changes--
i.e. not so formalised as the  call in . 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
        I can t believe I ve missed you again. Hope you re 
        both OK. Just know that I can t wait to see you. 
 
 
DANNY clicks on a computer picture of WATSON, taken outside his 
office. Beside WATSON, NICK. Picks up the phone. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      I need you lot to lift some bank details. Last name                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 33
 
                                      Thomas... 
 
 
CLAIRE, TOM and HELEN chat over a cup of tea. CLAIRE offers a 
cigarette to TOM--he takes one, lights himself and CLAIRE. 
 
                                        HELEN 
      We d love a family, we really would. But we ve been 
                                trying so long... 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              (the sage prophet) 
    No, no, I can tell. You ll be fine. Trust me, I m good 
                                at these things. 
 
                                        TOM 
            You still want me to check that alternator? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                          If it s not a bother... 
 
TOM smiles--he walks off. 
 
                                        HELEN 
      Poor Steve. He s always trying to blame himself. But 
    it s not him. Not me either. It s just hard sometimes, 
                      you don t know what to think. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
      My husband thought it was him. But then Sammy came 
    along. I think it was the fags. Get Steve to cut down. 
                    You ll be up the duff in no time. 
 
HELEN keeps staring at CLAIRE--hard not to see the bruises. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  Can I ask you a personal question? 
                                  (Claire shrugs) 
                          Was that a garage door? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                  Garage door? 
                                      (gets it) 
                                      Oh--yeah. 
 
                                        HELEN 
    I was going to say. I used to have one of them. Got me 
                in the same place, every bloody time. 
 
 
BRIAN at the door of a house, talking with an OLD WOMAN. 
 
                                    OLD WOMAN 
          They ve moved, love, they re up Abbey Crescent I 
                          think. That new estate. 
 
BRIAN leaves. We follow the OLD WOMAN back 
 
INSIDE THE HALLWAY 
 
Where she calmly shuts the door and picks up the phone. Speed 
dials a number. It s picked up immediately. 
 
                              OLD WOMAN (CONT D) 
          Oh, hello dear. It s Rosie. I just got tickled. 
 
 
HELEN is getting ready to go out. TOM comes in. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Osborne s checking backstops. Which doesn t surprise 
                    me. His wife s new best buddies. 
                            (HELEN looks nervous) 
      You know you can call off sick. I can still go, make                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 36
 
                                      apologies. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                        I m coming with my husband. 
 
TOM goes to the kitchen, takes out a big wedge of cheese. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT'D) 
                    We re going for dinner, remember. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Osborne s going to ply us with booze. Long as your 
        stomach s full of fats, it ll stave off the effects 
    for a couple of hours. Eat. Tip from the top. Oh, and 
      when you drink, just wet your lips. Makes it last for 
                          hours. Come on. Tuck in. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  If I get bad dreams I m blaming you. 
 
She eats a big bite of cheese. 
 
 
DANNY arrives back at his desk to find COLIN waiting, sweaty. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            Bank details. Finally. 
 
COLIN types at DANNY s computer--we change angle so the screen is 
not visible. But DANNY s face shows--this is a surprise. 
 
                                  COLIN (CONT'D) 
    Two different shell companies, right, but I got there 
          in the end. Your man Nick isn t being entirely 
            truthful about his job history. Shall we say. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Shave me sideways. 
 
 
HELEN and TOM sit with OSBORNE and CLAIRE. Dinner. Elgar plays on 
the stereo. OSBORNE s monopolising HELEN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  We moved to Brighton when I was 3. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
    Oh really? My Mother s from Brighton. What street did 
                                  you live on? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 37
 
                                        HELEN 
                                  Altringham Road? 
                                      (quickly) 
                          I love your placemats-- 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
        Yeah, they re nice aren t they? Rob got them from 
                              Cyprus years ago-- 
                                      (to Tom) 
                        How did you two meet then? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Funny story actually-- 
 
 
HELEN is helping take dishes through to the sink. She moves a pile 
of plaited reed placemats to make way. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                  Turtles, that s so sweet, honestly. 
 
TOM walks through--to CLAIRE--who anticipates his question-- 
 
                                CLAIRE (CONT'D) 
                    Littlest room? Left up the stairs. 
 
TOM shoots HELEN a look--you okay? HELEN nods, walks back to-- 
 
THE LIVING ROOM 
 
where OSBORNE is admiring a painting. It s a Canaletto reprint. 
London from Richmond. HELEN approaches. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                        Nice. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                          Very pleasant, I agree. 
                                        (then) 
                  What does your boyfriend do again? 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                        He s-- 
 
She stops dead. Looks at OSBORNE. He s staring. This was a test 
and HELEN s tripped up. This could go either way. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT D) 
            --my husband. What? Boyfriend, did you say? 
 
OSBORNE stares. HELEN better say something quick. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 38
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                              That s what I said. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                          He told you, didn t he? 
                                        (beat) 
      Steve. Did he tell you? I was in the loo and I heard 
                              you two talking... 
 
Now OSBORNE s getting confused. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                              I don t understand. 
 
                                        HELEN 
            Our marriage... it s not what it seems.   
                          (Osborne s listening now) 
      It s more, um, relaxed. I... see other men. I don t 
    really believe in monogamy. I don t think it s healthy 
                      for a long term relationship. 
 
OSBORNE, from hitting a paranoid fury high gear has changed down 
to horny old bastard. Though he s hiding it. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                            I m inclined to agree. 
 
                                        HELEN 
      I m seeing someone at the moment. So when you said-- 
    how s your boyfriend, I didn t know if you knew, so... 
                    I m sorry if I embarrassed you. 
 
TOM walks back in as CLAIRE brings out pudding and whisky. HELEN 
turns, sashays back to the table with OSBORNE watching. 
 
 
Post-pudding, OSBORNE is holding forth. Toasting her glass with 
his--he s forcing her to drink whisky with him. We might notice 
that when she puts the glass to her lips, she only wets them--only 
fakes a swallow. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
      I saw this young Islamic lad on TV last year. Talking 
      about how he was a Muslim first, and British second. 
      Happy to draw benefit, naturally, happy to live here 
      in peace and democracy and drive his Mum down to the 
      NHS Trust for free radiotherapy. And not a shred of 
      evidence he loves this country. Not a shred of pride 
      to even call himself British. That s why it s never 
    going to work in this country. They say it s religion, 
      but it s not, it s cultural. It s the same with the 
        Jews. They just all want to marry each other. Why                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 39
 
          should we stick up for any of them? That s not 
      extremism, you know, it isn t, it s just human nature. 
    And no-one is going to make me feel guilty for wanting 
              what s best for my family and my country. 
 
                                        HELEN 
    They re not all like that, surely. I mean, some people 
        come because there s a chance of getting on--don t 
                                        they? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
      Oh, sure, their governments all say it s our fault. 
        But they come here anyway. And then they complain 
        they re being forced into these centres. Well they 
                  should be grateful for the chance. 
 
CLAIRE is getting embarrassed. TOM glances subtly at the 
mantelpiece--fighting for space with photos is a carriage clock--
reading almost midnight. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
                  Oh, my loving wife is ashamed of me. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                    You re just talking all the time. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
        Well, what can I say. I m a proud man. I love my 
      country. I love the sound of my own voice. And I love 
      you, too, by the way--even if you don t love me back. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        We should really get going. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                    Got some swinging to do have you? 
 
TOM reacts--what s this? But it s microscopic... the pro. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
      Almost midnight, look, plenty of time. I should try 
                            the clubs, my friend. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Gosh. Is that really the time? 
 
TOM turns to HELEN--a flicker. Shit. OSBORNE clumps off to the 
kitchen. CLAIRE sees TOM and HELEN to the door. She s evidently 
annoyed and upset. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                        Claire, it s okay, really. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 40
 
                                        CLAIRE 
    No it bloody isn t. I m sorry. He s been in a complete 
      mood all week. All been going pearshaped around here. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                    Well, look, we had a great time. 
 
OSBORNE strides back, yanks CLAIRE away from the door, slams it in 
TOM and HELEN s face. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN sit, numbed, exhausted. 
 
                                        HELEN 
    I m sorry... I screwed up... I thought he d sussed me. 
 
                                        TOM 
    You handled it brilliantly. He can dismiss us as pervs 
      now. The cretin. You know that Elgar he was playing? 
                          Yehudi Menuhin on violin. 
 
                                        HELEN 
      I can t bear to think of her alone in that house with 
                                that arsehole... 
 
TOM goes over... puts his arm on her shoulder. She leans her head 
on his hand. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT'D) 
      This is going to sound odd. But. Would you mind... if 
                    we slept in the same bed tonight? 
                              (Tom looks at her) 
      I just... I d really like to have you there if I wake 
                                        up. 
                                        (beat) 
                            I mean, we are married. 
 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 41
 
HELEN slides into bed. TOM emerges from the bathroom, in a T-shirt 
and boxers. Shyly walks to the other side of the bed.. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                          Did you want to read...? 
 
TOM shakes his head. Gets under the covers. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Goodnight. 
 
HELEN switches her light out. TOM turns over. HELEN lies still for 
a moment. Emotion and alcohol churning. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                Thanks for the tip. About the cheese. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  My pleasure. 
 
HELEN rolls over... moves close. Closer... TOM s eyes register 
panic--but his body remains relaxed. HELEN s hand falls over his 
midriff. Nice. Then... it moves lower. 
Gently, she moves to kiss his neck, nuzzling into his shoulder. 
TOM moves HELEN s hand gently back to her hip. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                    Oh, God. I m sorry. I m so sorry. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    It s okay. 
 
TOM lies in bed for a few seconds. Gets up. 
 
 
TOM on the mobile. Staring at MAISIE s picture again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  (into phone) 
    If you re in bed listening to this, stay there. I just 
        wanted to say... I miss you. So much. That s all-- 
 
Knock at the door. TOM closes his eyes, ends the call. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                      Sorry... did I screw up again? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        (no) 
                        I ll see you in the morning. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 42
 
 
DANNY and HARRY. Photo of NICK on the table. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Surveillance just in. Nick Thomas. Real name is Kieran 
        Harvey, he s a freelance journalist. Works for an 
                    independent radio producer in Soho. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Obviously fancies himself as a bit of an undercover 
                                      maverick. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Not for long. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Sort out an urgent message. 
 
 
NICK walks sheepishly in to meet OSBORNE. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                  You re a nosey little weasel, Nicko. 
 
                          I like that in a bloke. 
 
NICK smiles through his concern. 
 
                                        NICK 
            I don t mean to pry, Rob, I m just keen to be 
                          involved. In any way I can. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
      Glad to hear you say that. You free today at all? I 
      need a bit of nosing around some new friends of mine. 
 
 
TESSA sits with acolytes. ZOE arrives, flushed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      My mate in Holland just paid me back. A new group s 
      just moved out of Ostend using old Heroin sea routes. 
      They ve got contacts in Greece, routing refugees from 
    the Caucauses to a pick up in Holland and onto a boat. 
                                Chechens, mostly. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                      Do we know the Greek contacts? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 43
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m talking to James Hopkinson over in Six--he s 
                sending stuff over soon as he finds it. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                      Excellent. Excellent, excellent. 
 
She leaves. ZOE s flushed with pride. DANNY passes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Someone s feeling rosey. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Yeah, well. Hot in here. 
 
But DANNY s not buying it. 
 
 
HELEN looks out of the window--a van is pulling up across the 
road. A Garfield sticky-model in the driver s side window. A CAT 
IN THE VAN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              (into phone, nerves) 
          Steve? There s a van outside. With a cat in it. 
 
                                      TOM VO.. 
                                    On my way. 
 
 
TOM enters, waits for another customer to leave. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  History Today? 
 
                                MALE SHOPKEEPER 
                              Only just come in. 
 
He passes the magazine to TOM. TOM hands over the exact money. As 
he leaves the shop, TOM opens the magazine to the centre pages--a 
blank insert card. TOM takes it. 
 
 
TOM wipes the insert card with a pen. Writing becomes visible. 
 Nick Thomas - Real occupation: journalist...  We don t see all of 
it. But he exclaims--whistles. 
 
TOM sets fire to the card. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 44
 
 
HELEN and TOM are sitting in the lounge. A knock at the door. 
HELEN peers out--it s NICK. TOM nods, HELEN opens the door-- 
 
                                        NICK 
      Hello--I was just in your area canvassing on behalf of 
        Bill Watson. Have you got a moment? Nick Thomas. 
 
HELEN steps aside, allowing NICK to come in. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Hello, Nick. Nice to meet you Nick. 
 
                                        NICK 
                                      (sweating) 
                                      You too. 
 
                                        TOM 
    Really. Nick. It s very nice. As is your suit. Did you 
        NICK it, Nick? Did you Nick it from anywhere nice, 
                                        Nick? 
 
                                        NICK 
                  Maybe I ll come back another time. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Oh, at least stay for some tea. 
                                      Kieran. 
 
HELEN slams the door. NICK freezes. 
 
 
Electric atmosphere. Phones and chatter. JED approaches ZOE. 
 
                                        JED 
                Urgent delivery from across the river. 
 
She takes a series of photos from him, plus a file. It s a two 
shot of two men in a cafe--looks continental. TESSA arrives. A 
look between them: ZOE s full of confidence again. 
 
                                        ZOE 
    Man on the right s the Cypriot fixer. Man on the left 
                                  is Driscoll. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                  You know him? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              (hands over a memo)                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 45
 
                  I think we ve got our landing site. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                      (reads) 
        Suffolk. How lovely. Fancy a trip to the seaside? 
 
ZOE smiles--starts packing a file with papers. But glancing at the 
photo again, her face falls-- 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT'D) 
                                    What is it? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Recognise him at all? 
 
ZOE points to a spot on the photo. Grabs the phone--dials-- 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                  James, it s Zoe over in the Kremlin. 
    Can you do me a favour? I need a keyword search on the 
                    Istanbul phone taps? The word is-- 
 
TESSA views the photo: the two men in the cafe. But there s a 
mirror between them. And in the mirror, in reflection, but still 
part of the meeting, a third man. Pushing in... 
It s someone we know. It s ROBERT BLOODY OSBORNE. 
 
                                      ZOE O.S. 
                                      Osborne. 
 
 
TOM and HELEN have a nervy NICK cornered in the kitchen. 
 
                                        NICK 
                      He ll be wondering where I am-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                So talk faster. 
 
                                        NICK 
      I ve been deep for a few months. Doing an expose of 
        the racist underbelly of British politics when I 
                      stumbled on this Obsorne thing. 
 
NICK takes his pen out of his pocket. 
 
                                  NICK (CONT'D) 
        It s digital audio, so no detection. I download it 
      onto hard drive, burn a CD, easy. What are you, NCS? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Far as you re concerned I don t even exist. You in                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 46
 
                          touch with anyone else? 
 
                                        NICK 
    No way--look, this is major stuff, alright? Osborne s 
        funding Watson to shove immigration to the front of 
          the agenda. Reception centres are already over-
      crowded. Once the problem reaches critical mass, the 
      government will have to act. Osborne gets guys going 
        in with cash, palling up to the local thugs, then 
      taking them right to asylum seekers. And beating the 
                    crap out of them. Cue the riots. 
 
                                        TOM 
    And Bill Watson grabs the political advantage when the 
                                news breaks out. 
 
                                        NICK 
      He puts the gloss on. But he s moderate, that s the 
    gambit. He s the one who makes it all seem reasonable. 
 
NICK moves to leave--TOM gently places his hand on NICK s chest--
not til I m finished... 
 
                                        TOM 
      I want everything you ve got. Names, tapes, contacts, 
                                      copies. 
 
                                        NICK 
        Oh, no. I m done now mate. I m off tonight, then 
                    editing for the next few months. 
 
Nick pushes past them both and heads for the door but TOM is there 
before him. NICK is afraid. So would you be. 
 
                                        TOM 
    What makes you think you ll have anything to edit when 
                          you get home... exactly? 
 
TOM steps aside and NICK rushes out. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                    What now? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      We re breaking. Move to close. 
 
 
HELEN sits on a bench. CLAIRE hurries over. She has a cut lip. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                    I got your message... what is it? 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 47
 
                                        HELEN 
                                      (nerves) 
                      Do you mind if we take a walk? 
 
They start to stroll through the crowds. Musak plays. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT'D) 
                                Are we friends? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
      I know what you re going to say, Susan, and I ll just 
      say this. I think that whatever lifestyle you lead, 
                    I d never think of judging you-- 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              Claire. Please.    
                                        (beat) 
                      Robert beats you, doesn t he? 
                                      (silence) 
      Before I met Steve, I was with a bloke... I know what 
                                    it s like. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                            The garage door thing. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                        (nods) 
                                    Is it bad? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                      (tears) 
            You re the first person I ve told who really 
                                    understands. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                    Have you ever thought of leaving? 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                              (lying to herself) 
        Where would I go? Come on. The life I ve got now. 
          Sammy s just starting school. What could I do? 
 
Point of no return for HELEN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                    I know someone who can help you. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
              If it s police, forget it, I don t need-- 
 
                                        HELEN 
        It s not police. It s nothing like that. But he s 
    helped me before. He could help you and Sammy get away                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 48
 
                              from him for good. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                        HELEN 
    Claire, please. As your friend. Meet him. Talk to him. 
                                Please say yes. 
 
CLAIRE looks at her friend. 
 
 
OSBORNE is here. BRIAN sits with him. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                        Full shipment. Big cheque. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                            What about the route? 
 
                                        BRIAN 
    Seems kosher. And they ve already got their hands full 
                                    up north. 
 
Three short knocks. One loud knock. BRIAN goes to the door, lets 
in NICK. Door shuts behind him. 
 
                                        NICK 
                                Sorry I m late. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
              Listen, Nick, I m shooting off for a bit. 
 
OSBORNE s eye catches NICK s pocket. That pen again. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 49
 
                                        NICK 
                                Oh really? Why? 
 
OSBORNE regards NICK with disappointment in his eyes. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                              Can I borrow a pen? 
 
NICK pats his trousers--no pen. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
                  No? Never mind. Oh, here s one look. 
 
OSBORNE takes the pen from NICK s shirt pocket. It s a normal-
looking pen. He  fumbles  with it--it springs open to reveal a 
BATTERY. NICK laughs, nervously. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
                          Who are you working for? 
 
                                        NICK 
                              I don t understand. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                    You will. 
 
And suddenly BRIAN s grabbed NICK in a headlock-- 
 
 
HARRY, DANNY and ZOE cross towards TESSA and the large meeting 
room. DANNY and ZOE carry files. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      The photo was taken in Paris a year ago. Greek guy s 
        name is Bora, he s the fixer in Cyprus for routing 
                      Chechnyan refugees to Holland. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        What the hell s he doing in Paris with a far right 
                              racist from Essex? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Osborne was in the army, wasn t he? 
 
A jolt of realisation buzzes through DANNY. He fingers through his 
file at great speed-- 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Only for a short while--Corporal--he was kicked out-- 
                                    (reads--sighs) 
              Shortly after his first posting to Cyprus. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 50
 
                                        ZOE 
          That s where they met. Obviously kept in touch. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Tom and Helen. They ll want to know if their man s 
        running an illegal immigration ring. Wouldn t you? 
 
 
TOM unlocks the door and comes inside. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We re out of here. 
 
He shuts the door. Sees--across the room. BRIAN. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                          In a manner of speaking. 
 
The Sidekick is behind TOM and coshes him on the head. 
 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 53
 
An operator waits for a call. It s 12:05. Phone doesn t ring. She 
picks up another phone. 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
              We re five minutes late on Greensleeves. 
 
 
JED is here--night watch. He puts the phone down. Dials another 
number. TESSA s working late too. Sees the activity. 
 
                                        JED 
                  Sorry to wake you. Probably nothing. 
 
 
Cold, gloom. HELEN wakes to find TOM is tied to her--back to back. 
She fidgets, panicking, freaking out... 
 
                                        TOM 
      We re going to get through this. Alright? Understand? 
 
But now we see why she s so freaked--one inch from her nose is 
NICK s bloodied face-- staring right back at her. Quite dead. 
 
 
DANNY has a whisky and bank statement on the coffee table, next to 
his lease agreement and a credit card bill. Sucking his teeth. 
Nightmare. Phone goes. Answers idly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yep. 
                                    (stands up) 
                                  Soon as I can. 
 
 
Darkness--the sky lifts. BRIAN and Sidekick stare in. 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                                  (to Sidekick) 
                                      Hurry up. 
 
 
Large window lets in a sulphurous glow over the catering-size 
range. Counter top, empty cases. And lots of fryers. 
 
HELEN is crying now. TOM blinks away the headache. Eyes his 
immediate surroundings. 
 
And now their captors. BRIAN and Sidekick. BRIAN moves to the 
window--all clear. HELEN is pushed to the floor. 
 
TOM is floored by a jujitsu move on his wrist--wham! Foot on his 
windpipe turns his groans into hoarse rattling. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  You re killing him! For God s sake! 
 
She lunges at Sidekick. He takes his foot off TOM s throat to kick 
her down again. She just may have saved his life. 
 
TOM sucks in air. Sidekick s about to start again-- 
 
                                        BRIAN 
                          Wait til they get here. 
 
And he flicks on the fryers. 
 
 
DANNY ends a call. Face like death. HARRY comes to him as TESSA 
approaches. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Last call in? 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Midnight yesterday, could be a full twenty five hours 
                              they ve been gone. 
                                    Where s Zoe? 
 
                                        TESSA 
    She s with the Customs team at the landing site on the 
                          Suffolk coast. Lamberton. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      We should pull her back to Romford. Start a search. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Not now. 
 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 55
 
A man and a woman enter. Revealed as OSBORNE... and CLAIRE. It s 
obvious CLAIRE is here under duress. Smoking nervously. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                You must think I m some kind of moron. 
 
                                        CLAIRE 
                          I trusted you! You bastard! 
 
She runs at TOM--a kick to the groin. TOM doubles over in pain. 
BRIAN laughs. She kicks TOM again, again--jumps on top of him, 
laying punch after punch... 
 
BUT HER EYES--CLOSE UP 
they re trying to say something totally different. Until she s 
pulled off. Has she talked? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                  We re fighting for you, you idiot. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  I don t know who you think we are... 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                      (thinks) 
                                      Shut up. 
 
He feels the heat over the fryers with his hand. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT D) 
        I know someone s been interested in me for quite a 
    while. Her fault, of course. Boyfriend line. Stood out 
                                      a mile. 
 
He holds up the 13A fuse--the one the burglar dropped. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What do you want? 
 
He s looking at HELEN. OSBORNE tosses the fuse into the fat--it 
bubbles away sulphurously... 
 
OSBORNE goes to HELEN and picks her up. Holds her arm at the 
elbow. Forces her over the now sizzling fat. Her hand is inches 
away. HELEN looks at TOM. Her wedding ring is already scalding 
her. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
        MI5 penetration of all far right groups. Names of 
        sources, their runners, and the officers managing 
                                        them. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 56
 
                                        TOM 
                  MI5? Is that who you think we are? 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
      I don t think you understand. You re used to dealing 
      with the skinhead lads. The dropouts. Lowlifes. But 
        we re officer class, you see. We ve thought things 
          through a little more. And little by little, the 
      country will change. Immigration was always a problem 
      for other people. It was never in people s faces all 
        the time. Now we re on the edge of the abyss, my 
    friend. And soon people are going to realise that. And 
        then we ll take this country back. One street at a 
      time. So. Names, runners, sources. Everything you ve 
                                        got. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Nick Thomas--he s-- 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                            A journalist. Was.    
                                      (sighs) 
                                  Dear oh dear. 
 
He plunges HELEN s hand into the fat. Her scream rips the lining 
from TOM s soul. CLAIRE pulls hard on her cigarette. She can t 
look, but hides her tears. 
 
TOM s teeth grind...he s sucking in air, trying to regain 
composure. HELEN s face... pleading... pleading... 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You want a name? I ve got a name. 
 
OSBORNE is staring at TOM--what s this? 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                      Brian, for God s sake tell him! 
 
BRIAN is momentarily thrown--what? OSBORNE is less impressed. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                    (long beat) 
                                  Cheap trick. 
 
OSBORNE takes what looks like an asbestos glove from a hook. He 
puts it on. And grabs a chip pan. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT'D) 
                                      (to Tom) 
      Everyone used to laugh at us. Not any more. Not any 
                                        more. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 57
 
Then, he presses the chip pan to the back of HELEN s head-- 
 
And plunges HELEN s face into the fat. 
 
A creature from hell arrives in TOM s eyes. A murderous, vengeful 
beast. HELEN s body shakes--her eyes explode, vocal chords burnt 
out in a second... the bubbling is sickening... 
 
TOM screams--! 
 
OSBORNE sighs, nods to BRIAN, who pulls out a gun. Shoots HELEN in 
the head. Her body jerks--and then slumps down. Limp. Quite dead. 
OSBORNE s face turns to the next-door fryer. CLAIRE has frozen. 
Her eyes meet TOM S. Collusion. 
 
                                OSBORNE (CONT'D) 
                      I guess you d better try again. 
 
BRIAN grabs TOM s hair. Leads him towards the bubbling fat... 
 
                                        TOM 
                  I ve got a kid. Same age as Sammy. 
 
This was directed more to CLAIRE than to OSBORNE. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
      He might just grow up in an all white England. And 
                          he ll have me to thank. 
 
And suddenly everything s happening very very fast-- 
 
CLAIRE throws her cigarette stub into the fryer. At the same time, 
TOM shifts his weight--bringing his captor into direct firing line 
as the flames leap up--setting him alight. 
 
Flames lick higher--charring the ceiling. Screams. 
 
The room fills with smoke. TOM shoulders the Sidekick s back at 
OSBORNE--who fumbles for his gun... firing wildly-- 
 
And now TOM does an amazing thing. He launches himself headfirst 
towards the window. Bad news--OSBORNE keeps firing--good news-- 
the bullets weaken the glass-- 
--which shatters as TOM impacts dead-centre. 
 
Moment s pause. Then all hell breaks loose. 
 
 
OSBORNE struggles to comprehend what just happened. He makes a 
grab for Claire. 
 
 
Phone is totally fucked. Gum stuck everywhere. No receiver. TOM 
turns away as a car passes--after the headlights fade, he runs out 
again... to the other side of the phone box (it s a two-sided 
one). 
 
Enters. It s working. Hands behind his back... dials, feeling for 
the digits... scoops up the receiver with his shoulder... We hear 
the BT  number unobtainable  sound, then: 
 
                                  BT OPERATOR 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
But TOM seems unperturbed. The sound again... 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
TOM waits patiently. Mouths  two . Memories cut in--he starts to 
cry once more. Wrenches it back. Control. Grim, almost demonic 
determination. Willing the phone on. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 59
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
Car lights flash in reflection. TOM turns again--the phone slips 
from his shoulder... clanking against the side... 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
TOM raises the phone up again, bends over, almost double, scooping 
the phone back towards his neck area. 
 
                            BT OPERATOR (cont d) 
      The number you have dialled has not been recognised. 
                        Please check and try again. 
 
The BT OPERATOR continues. The phone clicks for a second. Starts 
to ring. It s picked up immediately. Busy office. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                                        Hello? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Greensleeves. SOS. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                Tracing. Any idea of your orientation? 
 
                                        TOM 
      It s all I can do to fucking well stand up! I need a 
                                safe house. Now. 
 
                                  TELEPHONE VOICE 
                                  Hold please. 
 
TOM closes his eyes--HOLD! Another car, slow, this time... scoots 
past... and that bloody phone is slipping away from his ear now... 
he slams himself against the side of the booth. The receiver 
slides back towards his ear. 
 
                            TELEPHONE VOICE (CONT'D) 
    Callbox is Romford grid reference G-ML9185. Safe house 
                at G-ML9293. Stand by for directions. 
 
 
DANNY, HARRY, TESSA, all crowded round the operator. DANNY smashes 
his fist on the desk. 
 
                                        HARRY 
    Get a take team fanning out in a three mile arc. Start                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 60
 
                            with the safe houses. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  I ll go with. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                You ll stay put. 
 
A phone rings. DANNY dives off to answer it. JED runs in -- 
 
                                        JED 
        The bastard s dumped the payload. Customs saved as 
        many people from the water as they could. A live 
        feed s just coming through. Zoe s on her way back. 
 
DANNY hangs up and joins them, as TESSA stands up and heads 
towards the meeting room. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    (overhearing) 
    To Romford, you mean. That was her. She s going after 
                                  Tom and Helen. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Pull her back. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Believe me, she s unstoppable. 
 
 
INSERT ON TV: Eerie, unclear footage of a chaotic scene... C&E 
teams, in life jackets, carry people across the beach, whilst men 
and women walk amongst the dead. Their faces pained, as they 
grieve and look for loved ones. 
 
WE PULL BACK: to see TESSA watching the scene. 
 
 
TOM sits on the stairs. Head against the wall. Despair. headlights 
probe the darkness inside. TOM backs away, one step at a time. 
Door flies open-- 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 61
 
Dark figure in the doorway. Friend or foe? 
 
                                    ZOE S VOICE 
                                      It s me. 
 
ZOE steps into the light--sees TOM is alone. TOM sighs-- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Where s Helen? 
 
And TOM s face says it all as we dissolve to: 
 
 
DANNY and ZOE hug each other. Stare over at the meeting room. 
Where even they are banned right now. They glance over at JED. 
He s staring at the wall. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
              You know Derek from Millbank, of course. 
 
 
HARRY, TOM and DEREK, a young Home Office off-spinner of the Peter 
Mandelson school. Sitting with TOM, who is patched up. With a face 
of stone. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I want the Increment. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Impossible. 
 
                                        TOM 
      They re Special Forces. SAS. Assigned specifically to 
    us for precisely this purpose. They ll understand. We 
      look after our own. One call. That s all it ll take. 
    We ve got the locations, the names. Extract Claire and 
      the kid. Erase Osborne and the rest of them from the 
                                      planet. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Claire s in hospital. We just heard. She took a 
                    beating, but she ll pull through. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Thank God. 
 
                                        DEREK 
                  I understand how angry you must feel. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 62
 
                                        TOM 
                      You don t understand a thing. 
 
                                        DEREK 
      I'm surprised you're not seeing the positives in all 
      this. This is a mess. But a merry mess. Nonetheless. 
      Two people have died and Osborne s on the rampage. I 
                  say--good. In a manner of speaking. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                He s a murderer. 
 
                                        DEREK 
                                Not technically. 
 
                                        TOM 
    He s responsible. He killed one of our own. And we can 
                                stop him. Today. 
 
                                        DEREK 
            Who ever said anything about stopping him? 
 
Silence. 
 
                                  DEREK (CONT'D) 
        Just speculating, but now we know what he s up to, 
      despite the cockup, and chuffed to say he's tainting 
      the right with every single action he takes. Pushing 
        the right further right and the left towards the 
    central reservation. Meanwhile these reception centres 
        are a living nightmare and suddenly a Government 
          position on immigration is now possible that was 
        practically unthinkable two years ago--despite the 
    fact that most of the Cabinet were gagging for it. Now 
      we can venture a new bill, that brings the shutters 
        down on undesirables and make it look like we're 
      practically socialist, for God's sake. All thanks to 
              you. Pardon me for being party political. 
 
TOM stares. 
 
                                        TOM 
                You re not going to let us touch him. 
 
                                        DEREK 
      Now I didn t say that. But this has all proved very 
      successful in France, you know. Only difference here 
    is we hardly need to slip these lads a tenner at all. 
                                        (beat) 
    As I say, mere speculation. And only until the Bill s 
        been passed, obviously. Then you can get Special 
        Branch to do your dirty work as per the hymnsheet.                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 63
 
                    We re not total cynics, you know. 
 
TOM gets up in disgust and leaves. 
 
                                  DEREK (CONT D) 
                                      Oh dear. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You re a little shite, Derek, have I ever told you 
                                        that? 
 
                                        DEREK 
        You ve implied it enough times. Take a chill pill, 
                                  Harry. Please. 
 
DEREK shrugs, saunters out--HARRY follows him, quietly fuming. 
 
OUT IN THE GRID 
 
HARRY sees the sadness in every face. A black cloud hangs over 
everything in here today. HARRY picks up a nearby phone. DEREK 
looks over as he departs. A little wave. HARRY nods, a little wave 
back. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                (smiling falsely) 
                      Fuck you Derek. With bells on. 
 
He starts punching numbers. 
 
 
DANNY and ZOE enter. ZOE sits in the middle of the floor, begins 
to cry. Papers everywhere. The house is a total mess. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Jesus. What a shithole. 
 
He joins ZOE on the floor. Hugs her. She sniffles. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Oh, God. 
                                (blows her nose) 
                              It s all coming out. 
 
                                        DANNY 
      You ask me to give you a lift home and then you show 
    me this. Sorry, but. No way. I can t leave you here.   
                                        (beat) 
                  Come stay with me. Come on. Move in. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 64
 
                                        ZOE 
                    You re thinking about your LEASE! 
 
She springs to her feet. Before he can defend himself-- 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
    Helen s been dead two seconds and you re worried about 
                            your bloody CASHFLOW! 
 
ZOE cries. Gathers herself. DANNY is stunned. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
    I m sorry, I m sorry. That was wrong. What a thing to 
                                say. It s just - 
                                        (beat) 
                      We could all be dead tomorrow. 
 
They hug again. 
 
 
DANNY walks determinedly in through the door. COLIN s desk is 
empty, computer s still on. Cool as you like, DANNY sits down. 
Taps out some numbers. 
His own credit card details appear. He starts to change the 
numbers. Glancing around... checking... Hits  send . The perfect 
crime. Fuck you, Establishment. 
 
 
TOM stands in the doorway. ELLIE s clearing tables, Maisie helping 
her. She looks up. Looks like she s seen a ghost. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                      Matthew! 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                            Why didn t you call? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Wanted to surprise you. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              How was the trip? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I missed you. 
 
He removes a child s American baseball cap. A gift for MAISIE. 
ELLIE moves to him--tentative at first. But missing him-- they 
hug. TOM holds her like he ll never let go. Winces. 
                                                         Spooks\Season 1\Episode 2 Page 65
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                Are you alright? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Long story. Not now. There s something I want to 
                                      happen.  
                                      (silence) 
        I want you to come and live with me. I have a big 
        flat. It s big. It s got a garden. I want you and 
      Maisie in my life and in my flat as soon as possible. 
                              Will you do that? 
 
ELLIE s eyes now water. Yes. Yes. She goes to him--another 
embrace. TOM looks down at MAISIE, who is looking at: 
HIS FINGER 
and the wedding ring he still wears. TOM and MAISIE exchange a 
long, long look. ELLIE kisses TOM, walks over to MAISIE. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        Does that sound nice? To go and live with Matthew? 
 
MAISIE nods as TOM gently removes the ring from his finger. 
 
 
OSBORNE unlocks the front door. Enters. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                      Sweetness? 
 
His voice echoes. 
 
 
OSBORNE enters, agitated. Opens the cupboard. Half the clothes are 
gone. Dressing table is empty. She s gone. 
 
                                      OSBORNE 
                                      Dammit! 
 
He runs out. 
 
Smiling Iberia clerk hands over two passports. 
 
                                        CLERK 
        Thank you Mrs. Sykes, your flight is boarding from 
                          Gate 9 in forty minutes. 
 
CLAIRE (a little beaten) takes the passports and, clutching 
SAMMY s hand, walks off to a new life-- 
 
 
A cheery WATSON walks in, notices a Westminster internal mail Bag 
on his desk. Curious, he opens it. 
 
Inside: a picture of the bodies on the beach. Written on the back, 
 Are you happy with your wash?  His phone rings--he nearly jumps 
out of his seat-- 
 
 
TOM is cleaning... but oddly. He goes through papers. Letters. 
Files. Anything with  Tom Quinn  on it. And puts it in a folder. 
Marked  Me . He is also re-distributing everything from an open 
 Matthew Archer  file on the table. 
 
He stares at his bookshelves. Beat. Starts to remove all Le Carre 
books. Remembers something. Removes his wallet--and the wedding 
ring drops out, rolls onto the floor. 
 
TOM stops everything. Squats down--Picks it up. Holds it tight. 
And sits heavily down against the wall. 
 
Tears. 
 
END OF EPISODE 