 
Pockets of light glow around a vast open plan office space-- 
islands of hectic activity in the wee small hours. 
 
MOVING - 
Through the open-plan grandeur of the GRID, the nerve centre 
of MI5 operations... A phone is ringing... 
 
As we pass each little pocket of light, we find one or two 
officers, tapping on computers, whispering into telephones in 
foreign tongues. A young Muslim woman dressed for the office 
stares at a computer screen. The screen shows a young Muslim 
man staring back - the face of a terrorist. On other screens: 
names, reports, contracts, maps. Security never sleeps. 
 
The phone continues to ring. World clocks on the wall. In 
London it s 5.30am. 
 
JED (20s, Scottish imp) hurries towards the ringing phone. As 
he walks, motion-sensitive lighting above him clicks on, 
cutting a swathe through the darkness. 
 
Reaches the phone. Consults a list. Into the handset: 
 
                                        JED 
                        Dickson Murray Estate Agents. 
 
                                  OSPREY (V.O) 
                  I need to speak to Chris Patterson. 
 
                                        JED 
                      Can I take a message for him-- 
 
                                  OSPREY (V.O.) 
                                      (realising) 
          Tell him his sister needs to view a property, 
                                      urgently. 
 
JED checks the code on the list. 
 
                                        JED 
                                        Fine. 
 
Hangs up--runs over to another phone. Dials fast. 
 
                                  JED (CONT'D) 
                            (fast official speak) 
        Zone One Flash from Osprey. Page N-5 with a Zone 
                                    One Flash. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  2

We pull back, up, out-- to see... The Grid. A vast, modern, 
open-plan space. Phones, faxes, chatter--but no shouting. 
 
 
ELLIE lies on TOM s chest. Both early 30s, attractive. Close, 
intimate. As warm and secure as two people can be. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                      Matthew? 
 
She prods TOM--and it takes him longer than it should to 
realise who  Matthew  is--it s him. He rolls on top of her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        A very good morning to you. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                    So I see. 
                            (kisses him--listens) 
                              Matthew. What s that? 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You knew what it was last night. 
 
She smiles, pushes him gently off her-- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                            No, Benny Hill, that-- 
 
Tom listens. A beeping. Getting louder each beep. 
 
 
ZOE s pager beeps. She s late 20s, bright-eyed and sharp, even 
now. She wakes up... realizes there s another noise in here. 
Knocking. 
 
                                  LANDLORD O.S. 
              Zoe? Are you awake? Hey--Sleeping Beauty? 
 
He s a little drunk. ZOE--annoyed-- reaches for her pager... 
when she reads it she s out of bed in a second. Only now do we 
see the chair wedged under the door handle--securing it. 
 
 
TOM is getting dressed pronto. ELLIE watches him. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                      I prefer you naked, I m sorry. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Told you, Ellie. I m nothing but trouble. 
 
A giggle behind him. A little girl (MAISIE, 8) appears from 
the darkness by the door. 
 
ELLIE gets up and goes to her. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                      Maisie! What are you doing up? 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                      Nothing. 
                                      (smiling) 
                                  Hello Matthew. 
 
ELLIE gathers MAISIE in her arms. MAISIE grins at TOM--she s 
relaxed with him. TOM smiles back, relaxed and at ease--yet 
he s dressing at the speed of light. ELLIE sees this. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        What computer goes wrong at five in the morning? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Almost all of them. 
 
He s hiding the tension brilliantly. And yet... 
 
 
CCTV feeds display various angles outside, front and back. 
Inside, bare: two chairs, sofa, table. The blinds are down 
DANNY sits opposite OSPREY. She s smoking hard. Nerves. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I just got my boss out of bed for this. Start 
                                  reassuring me. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  4

OSPREY glances at the CCTV equipment--recording everything. 
 
                                        OSPREY 
            Explosives and detonators arrived in Liverpool 
        from Ireland at 2.30am today. But it s nothing to 
        do with us. No-one s planning anything. No-one s 
                                  said anything. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              How many devices? 
                                  (she s scared) 
                                    How many? 
 
                                        OSPREY 
                                      Twenty. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Twenty... And where are they now? 
 
                                        OSPREY 
                                  I don t know. 
 
On DANNY s reaction we CUT TO: 
 
 
Security gates, guards and modern electronic boards, showing 
current security status, now at amber. Small group of serious 
journos are gathered near the lifts. A peppy FEMALE PR 
addresses them in a rather loud voice-- 
 
                                      FEMALE PR 
                Officially, we re the Security Service, 
            unofficially, we prefer MI5 or simply  5 . Our 
            main function -- the protection of Britain s 
                              national security. 
 
The lift doors open--the FEMALE PR ushers the group inside. 
The doors shut... we turn to the entrance just as TOM and 
HARRY (40s, zen)are passing through security. A guard checks                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  6

their passes. He lights up when he sees TOM. 
 
                                        GUARD 
                          Early start today, Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                               Fraid so, George. 
 
                                        GUARD 
                              (notices Harry--nods) 
                                        Sir. 
 
As they walk across the lobby, a quickfire exchange-- 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Global terrorism, Islamic extremists, all phone 
        tap resources plus Echelon pointed at the Middle 
          East, and now the old enemy looks like they re 
        rearing their heads. Oh what a beautiful morning. 
                        Who took the Flash message? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Jed. Danny s meeting Osprey at a safe house now. 
 
They depart security and approach the lifts-- 
 
TOM punches the up button. Every so often, a nosey woman 
behind TOM and HARRY pretends not to listen. They lower their 
voices when she gets too close. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Ellie Simm. 
 
                                        TOM 
      We met at her restaurant a few months ago. She s a 
                              chef. Part-owns it. 
 
There s a tension here that belies friendship. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Very handy. If you re hungry. You met her under a 
                                      pretext? 
                                    (Tom nods) 
                                    Which one? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Matthew Archer. 
                              (on Harry s look) 
        I was trying to bump into a potential recruit on 
          the Shaw project. We knew he often went to this 
          restaurant in Brixton. So I ate there three times 
        a week til he turned up. It took about twenty goes 
          before he finally showed. So she thought I was                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  7

        this lonely guy called Matthew who worked in I.T. 
                                We got talking. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    And after the project was over - 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I kept going. As Matthew. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              And you like her? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Very much. 
 
HARRY has a wickedly ironic twinkle in his eye: 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Well... assuming she passes vetting, when might 
        you be addressing the microscopic issue that your 
              real name is Tom Quinn and you re a spy? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    (cautiously) 
        When did you tell your wife you were a spook? When 
                        you met? When you married? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      (shrugs) 
        Just after we signed the register. I always like 
                  to have things on paper, don t you? 
 
                                      ZOE O.S. 
                                      Hold it! 
 
Everyone jumps! ZOE - stressed. She s clearly been at work for 
a while. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Hi Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  It s started. 
 
TOM and HARRY both realise their pagers are buzzing. We pan up 
to see MI5 s insignia above the entrance:  REGNUM DEFENDE  
 
 
The hacks and the FEMALE PR stand at a junction in the 
corridor. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  8

                                      FEMALE PR 
        MI5 s major focus right now is counter-terrorism, 
        but our brief also includes serious crime, illegal 
              arms and immigration, and the drugs trade. 
 
                                        HACK 
          How much has your remit changed since September 
                                    last year? 
 
                                      FEMALE PR 
        Our workload s exploded, our intake s tripled, and 
        we re talking with our sister agencies around the 
        world more than ever. Despite what you might think 
        we cooperate fully, with MI6, the CIA, everyone. 
                    We try to be as open as we can. 
 
The PR leads the tour down another corridor. TOM and ZOE dodge 
around the tour, then walk hurriedly towards an innocuous-
looking door with swipe card security. 
 
TOM punches out a PIN. Opens door for ZOE. 
 
                                        HACK 
                                      (noticing) 
                              What s down there? 
 
                                      FEMALE PR 
                          That s the coffee room. 
 
The hack turns away and follows the group. ZOE and TOM emerge 
through the  coffee room  door into: 
 
 
We ve been here before. TOM and ZOE walk together towards 
their department -- nodding hello to the admin staff, and to 
TESSA (52, stunning) in her domain. There s a buzz about the 
office that says: action stations. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        We re looking at a major device, sixteen minutes 
                          ago, suburban Liverpool. 
                                (consults report) 
        Two serious casualties, a woman, Dr. Lynott, and 
                                  her daughter. 
 
The near-frenzy of activity continues. 
 
TOM s face darkens like a storm front. 
 
OVER IN THE ADMIN ISLAND 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  9

JED (still here, still sharp) and HELEN (20s--and, actually, 
sharper still) sip coffee in the central adminstration area. 
Clerks. HELEN eyes TOM as JED answers a phone. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                I heard pipebomb. 
 
As TESSA passes, handing over some photocopying-- 
 
                                        TESSA 
                        Remote detonation, actually. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              Cell phone or radio? 
 
Tessa punctures Helen s enthusiasm with a look. 
 
                                  HELEN (CONT'D) 
          It s just, I heard there were these new Tetra 
                            Radio frequencies...? 
 
She s just not buying it. Helen cuts her losses and shuts up. 
 
A phone rings. Jed picks up... then flicks a switch -- and on 
top of the desk, a redlight flashes. The loud chatter around 
him instantly drops to a whisper. Effortlessly: 
 
                                        JED 
                    Greengage Catering, Susan s phone. 
                                        (beat) 
                She s out of the office at the moment. 
 
It s clear this is not ever Susan s phone. 
 
BACK OVER WITH TOM AND ZOE 
 
TOM on the move, ZOE now reading from a report. Glances up-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          How old s the daughter? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Seven. Here s Danny. 
 
DANNY arrives, flustered. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Twenty devices, Loyalist sourced, smuggled over to 
            Liverpool then sold on. To who, we don t know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Is that verified? A rumour? What? 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  10

                                        DANNY 
        Osprey told me face to face this morning. She saw 
          the bombs come in, but then she lost them. All 
            high-grade explosives, pipe bombs, some remote 
          detonation kit but she couldn t get close enough. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Any more light we can shed on this? Let s talk to 
              Hassan, just to be sure there s no Islamic 
            connection. Who s the  R  girl with Merseyside 
                                  Special Branch? 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Lisa Burford. But she s next to useless. 
 
                                        TOM 
            So we have no-one with Osprey s penetration. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        No-one close. She s our main informer in Liverpool 
                          and that s all she knows. 
 
They ve arrived in TOM s Department. DANNY sits at his desk. 
He starts removing everything from his pockets--wallet, keys, 
business cards, receipts, etc. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    No code was issued. No warning. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Okay Danny. We sure? Is this a link? 
                                        (beat) 
        Did this device arrive in Liverpool earlier today? 
                            Is this one of twenty? 
 
DANNY stuffs all his personal effects inside an envelope. It 
reads  Chris Patterson . 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I spoke to Special Branch. Keith Burns said the 
        blast area had  made in Kilkeel  written all over 
                                        it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        That s good enough for me. 
 
TOM walks over to HARRY s Office. DANNY is stressed and it 
shows. ZOE catches his eye. 
 
 
HARRY s on the phone. TOM swishes in, loiters nervously. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  11

                                        TOM 
                Device confirmed. Liverpool. Yes or no? 
 
HARRY holds up his finger--wait. He hangs up. Zen calm. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              This could be the start of a major terror 
        campaign. Home Office want a wet flannel, to avoid 
                  a public panic. I want you up there. 
 
TOM glances at his watch. Hardly got time on his hands-- 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
          We don t know how big this is yet Tom. Do the 
                                        usual. 
 
 
Speeding along the Embankment. TOM on the phone in the back. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Army bomb disposal teams have confirmed this was a 
          previously unexploded World War II bomb. Repeat, 
            this was not a terrorist incident. Make sure 
          that s the only message getting out. I want it 
                          across the board. WW-2. 
 
TOM is greeted by KEITH. KEITH hands TOM a local early edition 
paper. The headline reads:  WWII BOMB TRAGEDY . 
 
                                        KEITH 
                                  (dirty look) 
                                      Satisfied? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Not really Keith, no. 
                                      (reading) 
                              How s Dr. Lynott? 
 
                                        KEITH 
                                    Which one? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            There s more than one? 
 
                                        KEITH 
        Husband s a doctor too. She died half an hour ago. 
 
TOM is stunned. 
 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  12

Police guard outside. MIKE is fixated on the bruised and 
comatose face of SARAH, his daughter. She s on a ventilator. 
 
TOM stands by the door. He looks like KEITH s assistant. MIKE 
is numbed, concentrating hard on keeping it together. 
 
                                        MIKE 
                          That was no German bomb. 
                                        (beat) 
                        I know what s going on here. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Then you ll know how important your information is 
                                      to us. 
 
                                        MIKE 
                        Anti Terrorist Unit, right? 
 
                                        KEITH 
                              (looks back at Tom) 
                                  Special Branch. 
 
                                        MIKE 
                        We d been getting hate mail. 
 
                                        KEITH 
                                  For how long? 
 
                                        MIKE 
        We d had a few last year and got in touch with you 
        lot. Nothing ever happened but the whole business 
          almost broke us both. So when it all started up 
                  again I tried to keep it from her. 
                                      (tears) 
        Should have told her the truth really, shouldn t 
                                          I? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          You were protecting her. 
 
                                        MIKE 
                          I was lying to my wife. 
                                        (beat) 
                                  My dead wife. 
 
MIKE is only just holding himself together--he s been through 
too much today already... TOM is silent. 
 
                                        KEITH 
                                  Why hate mail? 
 
                                        MIKE 
          We re both family planning doctors. We perform                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  13

            abortions. Threats are an occupational hazard. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          When was the last letter? 
 
                                        MIKE 
                                  This morning. 
 
He can t bear to think about it. TOM walks over. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I m really sorry. 
 
                                        MIKE 
                          I should have told her... 
 
 
As they walk towards the exit... KEITH s fishing: 
 
                                        KEITH 
          Be nice to know a little more, Tom. Don t know 
        what it s like down in London these days, but up 
        here, we like to think we re all on the same side. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Right now, Keith, this is need to know. 
 
                                        KEITH 
            I just want to get those bastards. Alright? 
 
TOM looks at KEITH. Sizes him up. Confidential tone: 
 
                                        TOM 
        Twenty bombs arrived in Liverpool last night. That 
                                was one of them. 
 
KEITH nods--a point has been made. 
 
 
Close on computer screen: 
 
A scanned-in image of some hate mail reading  DEAD MEAT . 
 
The image is on TOM s computer. The team sit at their desks. 
TOM wanders around, musing--more brainstorming than briefing. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  14

                                        TOM 
            Explosives on this scale means money, it means 
          organisation, it means a network ready to receive 
                                        them. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Aim? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Death and destruction. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Obvious connection here would be Pro Life. 
                  Malcolm, any claims of reponsiblilty? 
 
MALCOLM is an odd-looking man in a bow-tie. He sounds almost 
autistic--a walking intelligence encyclopaedia. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        None official, but twelve quote unquote nutters. 
        No coded warnings on Liverpool in the last twenty 
            four hours. Or indeed the last forty eight. 
 
HELEN passes through, distributing teas on a tray. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Given the choice of this individual as the target, 
          we can assume it s not Irish or Middle Eastern 
            terror groups. Whoever they are, they ve got 
                                nineteen to go. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Doctor. Hate mail. Sounds targeted. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Okay, let s work on Prolife. We re looking at a 
                                      network. 
 
TOM walks over to a large white board.  LOYALISTS  is written 
on one side.  PRO-LIFE  on the other. A map is also pinned up, 
showing Liverpool and Northern Ireland. A line has been drawn 
from Kilkeel in N.I. to Liverpool. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      A major Prolife terror network. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              They don t exist. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yet. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  15

                                        TOM 
                            I m inclined to agree. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            How d they get all this kit through the ports 
                                      anyway? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    (sarcastically) 
          They wrapped them in bags of heroin so Customs 
                                wouldn t notice. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    (to Danny) 
          Who do we know in the UK Prolife extremities? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          In terms of pure group ID, we re looking at New 
        Life Scotland, The Unborn Alliance, The Innocents 
        Protection League being the main political wing of 
                                      course-- 
 
                                        TOM 
        Hardly trained mercenaries, and we know from the 
                            Watchers they re legit. 
                                        (beat) 
        If it is a pro life campaign it s someone outside 
        those orbits. Which means we ve been missing some 
          new faces in Liverpool. Step up surveillance on 
          all Merseyside contacts. Press sources on all 
            fringes. Follow Osprey, follow her friends-- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      How s the wartime bomb cover? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Holding. But that doesn t stop Keith complaining 
          about it. Any problems, remind him we now have 
              primacy in all terrorist cases in the UK. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        And if that doesn t shut him up, give him an Opal 
                                        Fruit. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        You can t get them anymore. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                Starburst. They re called Starburst now. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          (to TOM, trying to charm) 
          You ll need someone up there co-ordinating the                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  16

          surveillance...? Seeing if Osprey s giving us the 
                                  full picture? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        You re right, I will. Zoe? 
 
DANNY shrugs, pretending he s not bothered. ZOE is a little 
surprised to be asked. She nods--makes a note, returns her 
attention to the  Dead Meat  image. 
 
He leaves. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I just don t see it. Pro-lifers using bombs. In 
                                      Britain. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          You think everyone s delighted about abortion? 
                      Everyone s writing fan letters? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Personally, yes. But so far they ve just never 
                                  been a threat. 
 
HARRY s wandered over. His voice almost startles them: 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Something we ve learned in the last twelve months. 
                        Nothing ever is. Until it is. 
 
A cookbook is open on the counter. Homely, farmhouse vibe. 
MARY KANE (the woman from the car) bends over an oven and 
gently removes a pie. The pie is ruined. She s in her 30s, and 
  American--somewhere south of Mason-Dixon. Doorbell goes. 
 
                                        MARY 
                      Oh... fooey. Mary, you idiot. 
                                        (off) 
                    Steven, honey, can you get that? 
 
The man (STEVEN) is the burly one from the car. He peers 
through the spyhole. Beams, throws open the door. 
 
                                        STEVEN 
                        Welcome to my modest abode! 
 
On the doorstep is the man (ROB) who had the newspaper, his 
young wife (RACHEL) and their two kids. The kids run in, all                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  17

but swallowed up by MARY. RACHEL eyes the decor politely, but 
there s an undercurrent of stress here that s obvious. 
 
                                        MARY 
        I ve just had a pie-related disaster, I m afraid. 
 
ROB s stomach is churning but he keeps up politeness-- 
 
                                        ROB 
                    I m starving, I ll eat anything. 
 
                                        MARY 
            Worked up a bit of an appetite myself there, 
                                      Robert. 
 
Their eyes meet in collusion. RACHEL smiles weakly. Also 
trying to keep this sense of normality after what s occurred. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                                  Yeah, me too-- 
 
She goes to MARY--holds her gently--they kiss in greeting. 
 
                                        MARY 
                                    I hope so. 
 
 
Post-dinner afterglow. MARY pours RACHEL a cup of coffee. 
Something about the aroma makes RACHEL s eyes sparkle: 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                      Ooh, is that hazelnut flavour? 
 
                                        MARY 
              A little bird told me you were a big fan. 
 
                                        ROB 
                    I can t buy enough of the stuff. 
 
                                        KIDS 
                    Can we go and play Playstation? 
 
The kids look to RACHEL, their mother. But RACHEL looks to 
MARY for confirmation. MARY smiles, ruffles their hair. 
 
                                        MARY 
                          Only driving games now. 
 
They run off. She pours more coffee. Kids play loudly o.s. A 
change in tone around the table. Business. ROB brings out the 
local paper--with the  WWII BOMB  headline. Pushes it over to                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  18

MARY, who nods. 
 
                                  MARY (CONT'D) 
              They don t like scaring you guys, do they? 
         British beef is safe to eat.  Always with that PR 
                                        angle. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                            So what happens now? 
                              (Mary looks at her) 
                          I mean--who s doing what? 
 
                                        STEVE 
        You and Rob carry on as normal. I ll keep Mary out 
                          of sight til phase two. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                          Fine. Good. We re ready. 
 
Nerves. RACHEL smiles up at MARY. Almost like a daughter. 
Then... her face clouds--reading the paper. MARY takes 
RACHEL s face in her hand. A loving smile. 
 
                                        MARY 
                  You re scared, honey. I understand. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                      No, it s just--that poor girl. 
 
                                        MARY 
        Having a mother like that, it s hard to know right 
                                    from wrong. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                It s a big step, Mary. For all of us. 
 
                                        MARY 
        I was terrified. At the beginning. But then I met 
        my husband. And Paul sat me down and asked me to 
        imagine something. Imagine a man with a gun. You d 
          be scared. So would I. But what if you saw him 
          walk into a playground and point that gun at a 
          child, how scared would you be then? And if you 
          saw him pull the trigger, shoot one child, then 
          another? Would you still be scared? Or would you 
          stop thinking about yourself and just try with 
          every fibre of your being to stop him before he 
          killed the whole school? Of course you would. I 
          know your fear, Rachel. But always remember who 
        we re fighting for. And who we re trying to stop. 
 
RACHEL nods. Wise words. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  19

                                  MARY (CONT'D) 
            Drink up now. We have a lot of work to do, 
                              sweetheart. After all. 
                            (sips her coffee--icy) 
                      These bastards are everywhere. 
 
 
ZOE walks in to her bedroom--to find her young, goodlooking 
LANDLORD sitting there. There s a predatory sexuality here. 
ZOE ignores him. He stands as she comes in. 
 
                                      LANDLORD 
            Grey suits you. In a good way, I mean, It s 
                        really--kind of, you know-- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Can you leave my bedroom please? 
 
She s trying to get to the other side of the room. Edges past 
him to get to a drawer on the other side of her bed. 
 
                                      LANDLORD 
        Last night. Listen. I was back late, a bit pissed, 
              I thought you might be up. I certainly was. 
                              (she ignores him) 
        How s the paperclip pushing going? Civil Service 
                          still rocking the Casbah? 
 
ZOE regards him for a second--like a computer analysing data. 
She gently pushes him out of the door. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Fine. 
 
She shuts the door gently but firmly. Locks it. 
 
                                  LANDLORD O.S. 
                  The phone bill s come, by the way. 
                Not that you ever use the bloody thing. 
 
ZOE sits on her bed. Relief. 
 
 
ELLIE sleeps. TOM creeps in, already undressed. It s very 
late. Gently eases himself into bed. ELLIE rouses a little. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              How was your day? 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  20

                                        TOM 
                                      ..Fine. 
 
He holds her. She closes her eyes. He cannot. 
 
 
DANNY sits with his MOTHER. She puts a large fried breakfast 
down in front of him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Mum, seriously, I m not that hungry. 
 
                                    DANNY S MUM 
              Daniel, you need feeding up, look at you. 
 
DANNY smiles. Resistance is useless. 
 
                              DANNY S MUM (CONT'D) 
        You alright treasure? You look tired. You sleeping 
                                        okay? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          It s just... it s work. 
 
DANNY and his mum exchange a look that says: she knows. 
 
                                    DANNY S MUM 
                                      (softly) 
        It s okay, I know you re not allowed to tell me. 
 
DANNY shrugs. But before he can answer-- the door. DANNY S MUM 
recognises the footfalls. Looks at the clock. Sighs. 
 
                              DANNY S MUM (CONT D) 
                                Later and later. 
 
A younger Danny walks in--his brother, BRUNO. Trendy DJ gear, 
record bag. Pleased with himself. 
 
                              DANNY S MUM (CONT D) 
          Bruno, honestly--when was the last time you saw 
                                  the sunshine? 
 
                                        BRUNO 
          Just now. Big ball in the sky, right? Morning 
                                        scum. 
 
He rubs DANNY s head, kisses his Mum. Opens the fridge, gets 
some milk out--drinks it from the carton, and walks off, 
leaving the fridge door open. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  21

DANNY S MUM sighs, goes to close it. DANNY s there before her. 
From further down the house we hear LOUD GARAGE MUSIC. 
 
Danny s Mum regards her eldest son. He does look tense. She 
moves to him and envelops him in a hug. DANNY clearly welcomes 
the chance to let go. 
 
 
Phones ring, voices chatter all across the Grid... ZOE s 
already at her desk. Her screen shows a city plan, awash with 
multicoloured lines and nodes--all very complex. 
 
JED rushes in--the action stations buzz hasn t abated. 
 
                                        JED 
          Some lettings company on the phone for you? Two 
                          hundred a week in Zone 2. 
 
ZOE waves him away--too busy. JED leaves. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Your landlord still giving you hassle? 
 
DANNY glances over at her work. ZOE ignores his question and 
senses his attention--deciding to seek some advice: 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Danny, this Liverpool surveillance. I m thinking 
              of switching the A-B-C to floating box on 
                                      Osprey... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  ..It s okay Zoe. You don t have to. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        What? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Toss me a bone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Sorry, what? 
 
DANNY glances around the department. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Look. I know why I got this job, put it that way. 
 
ZOE laughs at him. Sees his expression. Stops laughing. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  22

                                        ZOE 
                    Oh my god, you re being serious. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Funny. Yeah. Keep going. This is all very amusing. 
 
ZOE turns on a sixpence - still cheery, but now an edge: 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m as scared as you are, alright? Why d you think 
        I ve been here since the crack of dawn? I m better 
            with people. You know that. They know that. 
                            (glances at her screen) 
          You might be a boy wonder with these things but 
        the last time I managed surveillance on this scale 
          was in training. Five years ago. With a pencil. 
        From here on in, mate, we re both special. Is that 
                                alright with you? 
 
DANNY glances over at her screen again. Long beat. TOM 
arrives, hangs back--watching his team work. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            A-B-C gets better coverage on a grid system. 
 
ZOE smiles to herself. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Let s hope so. 
 
We glimpse TOM--he s keeping an eye on things and like what he 
sees. Interaction. Teamwork. 
 
 
A pile of recent surveillance photos sits on a desk. Different 
people, places, faces, lenses. Several show STEVEN and RACHEL 
shaking hands with ED. 
 
Another show several long range shots of MARY, STEVEN and ROB 
walking up to the door of the cottage in the Wirral. DANNY and 
ZOE are comparing these images with a list of names and other 
images in a large dossier. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Lots of folks. Lots of folks. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Lots of men. It s always men. 
 
ZOE looks at him carefully. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                      You ever made anyone pregnant? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        What s that to do with you? 
 
ZOE analyses his reaction carefully. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Didn t think so. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  24

ZOE looks at a photo. Puts it in another pile. It s the photo 
of MARY. ZOE smiles at HELEN, who comes over. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                  Helen, any chance of a few copies? 
 
She hands her the photo. HELEN looks at it casually. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                                      Oh, her. 
 
ZOE looks at her blankly--what? 
 
 
TOM is with TESSA, angrily brandishing the photo. TESSA tries 
to ignore him. ZOE and DANNY watch from a distance. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Tessa. What a priceless ice queen. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Be nice. She ll be D.G. one day. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Not before me, my peppy friend. 
 
OVER WITH TOM 
 
His eyes are sparking with frustration. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The whole point of having all those stupid 
        meetings together is so that information like this 
                                can be shared..! 
 
                                        TESSA 
                  And that s exactly what s happening. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Do the words  ports warning list  mean anything to 
          you? She came in over six weeks ago! God knows 
                              where she s been! 
 
                                        TESSA 
        She was on a false passport to Dover from France 
            and her name wasn t Mary Kane, it was Denise 
                    Marston. I m not Mystic Meg, Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    No, Tessa. You re something else. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  25

 
Everyone s here. Action stations. Everyone s watching TV, a US 
local news report of a scene of carnage outside a small low-
rise building. The report fills the screen. 
 
                                      REPORTER 
            Florida-based group Defenders of the Innocents, 
              perpetrators of attacks at several abortion 
              clinics across the South, have this evening 
          claimed responsibility for the Absalom bomb... 
 
The footage cuts abruptly to a BBC News 24 reporter. Her 
report is intercut with relevant graphics and other images: 
 
                                  BBC REPORTER 
          Mary Kane, also believed to be a prime mover in 
              the Defenders of the Innocents, was today 
        convicted in absentia for the Absalom Clinic bomb. 
          Mary Kane s husband, Paul Kane, is due to go to 
            the electric chair later this month for the 
            shooting of a doctor outside his home in the 
                          Florida town of Sarasota. 
 
The report clicks off. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Candidate number one. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Why Karen Lynott? Why her seven year old girl? 
 
TOM holds up a printout of a web site, several pages long. 
 
                                        TOM 
        All their American targets to date have come from 
        their name and shame website, the Call To Justice. 
            There s all kinds of stuff on here... message 
          boards, home addresses, office numbers, names of 
              their kids and where they go to school... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          And when a target dies, their name gets crossed 
                                        out. 
 
                                        TOM 
        So presuming they ve compiled a similar list for 
                the UK, Karen Lynott will be on there. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Not found it yet -- but we will. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  26

Folders are opened. We might glimpse propaganda, hate mail, 
grim photos. DANNY in particular can t look for long. 
 
                                        TOM 
        She s on the run from the FBI, she s slipped out 
      of the U.S., cock up, she s slipped into the U.K., 
          even bigger cock up, currently hiding out in... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    A terraced cottage in the Wirral. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Property s recently been rented. Surveillance 
        suggests she s living there on a permanent basis. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Why come to the UK? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Invitation. To train up extreme UK pro-life groups 
          for direct action. Use those bloody explosives. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              (reading from a file) 
          Age fifteen, Mary Kane was admitted to hospital 
          for appendicitis and came out with a terminated 
          pregnancy. Same doctor became her first target, 
        twenty five years later. She s into anniversaries. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          (flipping through papers) 
          Her husband s going to the chair in Florida on 
        Saturday. Could be planning a commemoration then. 
 
                                        TOM 
                You think she s carrying on his work? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          He s a strong personality. So is she. There s a 
            young and naive movement here. They think the 
          system s failed them, so now they re looking for 
          strong leadership outside. Mary s come here to 
        carry on where Paul left off. One bomb to provoke 
            the issue. The second in his loving memory. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    And then... 
 
                                        ZOE 
          A permanent memorial. A living network of terror. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Giving us... three days. With everything else                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  27

                                that s going on. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I want her talking. Chatting. Kicking back with a 
          beer... I want bugs all over that house and Mary 
        Kane relaxed enough to reel off every contact in 
        her book, every plan in her head. I want to know 
        what they re eating, likes, dislikes, disgusting 
              personal habits... Also, capital letters, 
              underlined, all plods to be kept well away, 
          alright? We are not bringing Special Branch into 
          this until she s told us everything we need to 
          know. She s no use to us in a cell right now. I 
                  want happy chatty verbal diahorrea. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                  Osprey for Chris Patterson. Coded. 
 
DANNY dives off to deal with it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      If she does talk... I mean, we have no idea of how 
                              big her network is. 
                          (silence--she holds firm) 
              I can t bug her house on luncheon vouchers. 
 
TOM eyes her. She s being canny. He s pleased. HARRY gives her 
an oyster-eyed stare. DANNY s back, stressed. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Let me see what I can do. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Osprey s done some legwork. She got it wrong. Only 
                  five of those devices are pipebombs. 
                                        (beat) 
                          The rest of it s Semtex. 
 
Only TOM s eyes hint at his anxiety now--softly: 
 
                                        TOM 
                            She s planning a war. 
 
 
Holdall is placed next to four others. ROB opens it up. There 
are scary things inside that look a lot like bombs.                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  28

Bag is zipped shut. Door slams leaving only darkness. 
 
 
ZOE is joined by TOM as she heads for the door. DANNY watches 
her go, jealousy churning. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  So what can I say to Special Branch? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            As little as possible. 
 
ZOE nods. TOM steps aside to talk to JED--DANNY moves in. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Have a good one. 
 
ZOE nods again--dealing with her nerves. DANNY walks off. TOM 
does too--but a thought occurs to ZOE. Runs after him: 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            What about the phones? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Already taken care of. 
 
We hear a doorbell-- 
 
 
STEVEN talks to a young male BT ENGINEER (RINGO) in full kit 
and ID. 
 
                                        STEVEN 
                  It just went dead about an hour ago. 
 
                              BT ENGINEER (RINGO) 
                      We ve had a few of those today. 
 
He s polite, courteous... and we ll see him again. 
 
 
TOM and DANNY are in the meeting room. HELEN comes in with a 
poster and unfurls it on a desk. It s horrible. It reads 
 Abortion is Murder . 
 
                                        HELEN 
        These have been put up in hospitals all over the 
                  country. They re bloody everywhere. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  29

                                        DANNY 
                                      (shocked) 
              Mary Kane s network must be getting busy. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Shows a groundswell, definitely. 
 
                                        HELEN 
        Shows a screwed up imagination, if you ask me. I 
          hope your war cover s good enough to hold, with 
                              all this going on. 
 
She exits. 
 
 
Heading south under the Mersey tunnel. ZOE sits next to the 
bunch of lads from the pub. Scouse scallies dressed as gas 
engineers. 
 
We ll call them JOHN, PAUL and RINGO. We might recognise RINGO 
as the BT Engineer from earlier. They re mid-joke. 
 
                                        JOHN 
      So the doctor reaches in, pulls out this red rose, 
        this perfect red rose out of this bloke s arse. So 
          the doc s like,  I don t believe it . And the 
                                    bloke says: 
 
                                    PAUL V.O. 
                          (recalling the punchline) 
                     Read the card, read the card..  
 
                                        JOHN 
                        Have I told that one before? 
 
Laughter erupts. 
 
                                        RINGO 
          Can we just stop at Tesco s? I need to pick up 
                              some fishfingers.   
                                (on Zoe s look) 
                                  I do though. 
 
 
TOM is dressing hurriedly into a smart but casual fashion 
statement. He s looking in the mirror--uncharacteristically 
nervous. ELLIE enters, looking gorgeous. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                      I thought you d done a runner. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  30

                                        TOM 
                                Still time yet. 
 
She picks a stray hair off his shoulder. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        Don t worry Matthew. It s only everyone I ve ever 
        liked in my entire life coming to take a butcher s 
                                      at you. 
 
TOM glares playfully at her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Exactly. What s the worst they could do? 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                      They ll probably just eat you. 
 
He tries to grab her but she dodges. 
 
 
By the stairs, a sign:  PRIVATE PARTY . 
 
 
A dinner party is in progress. TOM is here, looking relaxed. 
ELLIE is glowing with wine, MAISIE is done up smartly, 
pretending to be an adult and doing very well. 
 
A man called CLIVE is quizzing TOM a little drunkenly. 
 
                                        CLIVE 
                  So, Matthew, what do you do again? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          It s very dull, honestly. 
 
                                        CLIVE 
                          I m sure that s not true. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I m in the Civil Service. 
 
                                        CLIVE 
                              Really? Which part? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        I.T. 
 
ELLIE is now listening a little more intently. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  31

                                        CLIVE 
                          Group or departmental..? 
 
                                        ELLIE 
          Objection, counsel is harrassing the witness... 
                                        Clive. 
 
TOM chuckles. A pleasant laugh, relaxed, open: 
 
                                        TOM 
              I work in I.T. across several government 
        departments. And what s more, I like it, I really 
            do. Which makes me a very lucky man I guess. 
 
ELLIE smiles at him. He s looking good in candlelight. 
 
                                  ANOTHER GUEST 
                      Job satisfaction. Holy Grail. 
 
                                        CLIVE 
          Absolutely. So, Ellie, where s your satisfaction 
                                    these days? 
 
This is a lascivious reference to TOM and she knows it. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  Line dancing? 
 
                                        CLIVE 
                                  Be serious. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        I am serious! And running this place is great. But 
          I guess the number one spot would have to be... 
 
MAISIE runs past and ELLIE grabs her, puts her on her knee. 
MAISIE cuddles into her mummy. 
 
                                  ELLIE (CONT'D) 
                        This little force of nature. 
                                  (mood changes) 
        It s funny, you know. After Mark... I mean, when 
                                    he left... 
 
Dark looks. Man s name is mud. MAISIE looks over at TOM, 
showing him a drawing she s done on a napkin. Restless, she 
gets off and runs around the table to show him properly. 
 
                                  ELLIE (CONT D) 
        ..and I found out I was pregnant... I m ashamed to 
          say I was in two minds. I really was. I didn t 
        know if I could be a single mum clich . But now... 
            I can t imagine having gone any other way. To                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  32

                      think I even considered it... 
 
ELLIE is hurt by the memory. She sees MAISIE completely 
comfortable with TOM--and manages a smile back. 
 
A car passes, its headlights illuminating the windows. Force 
of habit, TOM s eyes betray tension--flick to the window and 
back again. ELLIE pours more wine. 
 
TOM sneaks a look at his watch. 9.30 pm. 
 
 
Party s going well. CLIVE s storytelling. ELLIE watches TOM 
listening, accepting her friends, not imposing himself. 
 
TOM s expression changes briefly. Glances casually at his 
pager. Deletes. Leans over to ELLIE, mobile in hand. She s had 
a bit to drink and she s feeling cheeky. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  Wife and kids? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        Knew it was too good to last. Tall dark stranger                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  34

        comes into my life. Had to be a catch somewhere. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Some system s gone down. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                    You sure you re not a bigamist? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Last time I looked. 
 
TOM kisses her--sparks. MAISIE watches TOM depart. We see 
tension on his face. 
 
 
JED approaches DANNY, who s typing furiously, and hands him a 
memo. 
 
                                        JED 
        Here s the ISP rundown. The site s called the Call 
                                  To Justice. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I know, I know - it s not been indexed yet. When 
          it is, I ll be there, mate, and if its anything 
        like the American site, it ll be pretty horrific. 
 
 
MAISIE is singing, brushing her teeth in the bathroom. ELLIE 
is getting undressed. TOM is not. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        Sorry about Clive. He s a lawyer. If you know what 
                                      I mean. 
 
                                        TOM 
                He seemed very nice. I enjoyed myself. 
 
She looks at him: pulls him out of MAISIE s earshot... kisses 
him. She s tipsy. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
          Matthew. They adore you. Come on. You know they 
                              do. They love you. 
                                        (beat) 
                  And so do I. I love you. So there. 
 
TOM looks at her. She s regretting saying the  L  word. It s 
on his face. He s not Matthew. He s not. 
 
                                  ELLIE (CONT D) 
                                      Okeedokee. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        No, come here, come here... 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                    (they kiss) 
                            I do though, Matthew. 
                              (beat--cheeky smile) 
                          Face it. You re groovy. 
 
He smiles, embraces her tightly. But his mind is racing. 
 
                                  ELLIE (CONT D) 
            You are. You re  beezer . You re  bonzer ... 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I need to tell you something. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                    ...You re a bigamist! I knew it. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  37

ELLIE is displacing her anxiety into humour--but TOM can see. 
 
                                  ELLIE (CONT D) 
                                (off to Maisie) 
                        Hurry up now sweetheart... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Ellie-- 
                                      (considers) 
          I m not like you. I can t... open up very well. 
                                There s things-- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                      I know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You don t, Ellie. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
            I do. There s things. Matthew, there s always 
             things . Okay? I know about the things. Two 
        people, our age... If there weren t things, I d be 
        worried. Things are normal... I just wanted you to 
        know, things or not, what I m feeling right now. 
                                        Okay? 
                            (he s looking at her) 
                                      Matthew? 
 
There s so much love in his eyes, waiting to come out. But 
something, somewhere clicks inside. He s numb when he says: 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I can t stay here tonight. 
                                  (on her look) 
        Work might try and call me back. I don t want to 
                              wake you. Or Maisie. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              (hurt but hiding it) 
                                        Okay. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Whatever you think it is, it s not. Okay? You are 
        the best thing that s ever happened to me, Ellie. 
                              Do you understand? 
 
He really, really means it. But it still comes out awkwardly. 
ELLIE is trying to hide it all with a smile. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              Ah well. Your loss. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  38

Kisses her tenderly--turns to go as MAISIE walks in, singing. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                    Zoe, Zoe, Zoe... Zoe Zoe Zoe... 
 
He kisses her on the head. Smiles back at ELLIE. Leaves. ELLIE 
is looking half at MAISIE--that s a new song. 
 
TOM s face says: shut up, MAISIE... shut up... 
 
 
Cold, empty, dead. TOM enters--takes in the space, the lack. 
 
 
Dark bar one set of strip lights. TOM s at his desk. 
 
He s surrounded by large envelopes. All have men s names 
written on them. One envelope is clearly labelled  MATTHEW 
ARCHER . He s going through it now. 
We see there are numerous receipts for ELLIE s restaurant. 
She s written on a few:  Service Not Bloody Included!  
 
The light above him winks out. TOM rises like a robot, waves 
his arms around. The light comes back on. 
 
He puts the stuff back into the bag. Puts the bags into a 
locker under his desk. Slams the door shut. 
 
 
ZOE in a surveillance van with a SPODDY GUY. She s trying to 
keep him out of her personal space. He s invading. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              They ll be asleep. 
 
                                    SPODDY GUY 
        This kit s so sensitive we should be able to hear 
                                them breathing. 
 
He switches the kit on. We hear heavy breathing... and 
moaning. ZOE looks at him. Creeping horror on her face. 
 
The sound of sex. ZOE and the guy settle in awkwardly to 
listen--ZOE listens with professional attachment. SPODDY GUY, 
on the other hand, is loving it. ZOE finds this repulsive. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Enjoying yourself? 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  39

                                    SPODDY GUY 
                                  She is. You? 
 
He moves his chair closer to her--she moves away. 
 
 
MARY and STEVEN are having breakfast. 
 
                                        STEVE 
                I suppose you re going to Dundee then? - 
 
She holds up her hand. Ssh. She turns the radio on. STEVE 
remembers. Softly- 
 
                                        MARY 
          I m going to work with the group up there. We 
                agreed this was set in stone, Steven. 
 
                                        STEVE 
                  No, we agreed we d give it a shot. 
 
                                        MARY 
                    And now you re backing out on me? 
 
                                        STEVEN 
        Jesus, Mary, we re all as committed as you. And we 
                  all know the schedule s about Paul-- 
 
                                        MARY 
            Can we not go a minute without mentioning my 
                                      husband? 
 
MARY glares at STEVEN--forbidden subject now. She s trying to 
change his mind. Tears. 
 
                                        STEVEN 
                  I m as committed to this as you are. 
 
                                        MARY 
        So carry out what we discussed. We ve spent long 
                        enough doing the research. 
 
STEVEN thinks it through. Shakes his head. 
 
                                        STEVEN 
                                We re not ready. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  40

                                        MARY 
                            Then you ll never be. 
 
MARY pauses momentarily. 
 
                                  MARY (CONT'D) 
            Stay home and make soup, Steven. Print some 
                      leaflets. I m calling it off. 
 
We re pushing in on a screw in a light fitting... 
 
                                    STEVEN O.S. 
                                Calling what off? 
 
                                    MARY O.S. 
                                      Everything. 
 
                                    STEVEN O.S. 
                                      Even us? 
 
                                    MARY O.S. 
          Steven, I ve been having sex with you because I 
        thought you were going to do what I told you okay? 
                                Why d you think? 
 
                                    STEVEN O.S. 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                    MARY O.S. 
        No, I m not surprised. If you want something done, 
                                      jeez... 
 
 
An MI5 secretary with headphones is typing as she hears: 
 
                                    MARY V.O. 
                  Don t ask a Brit, that s for sure. 
 
 
HELEN arrives, hands TOM a detailed fax as DANNY types. 
 
                                        HELEN 
        They sifted through Mary s rubbish this morning. 
          Thought you might be interested in item number 
                  sixteen. Below the cranberry juice. 
 
IN THE DISTANCE--ACROSS THE GRID 
 
TESSA speaks to a slick-suited woman in a suit. We will know 
her later as CHRISTINE DALE. TOM glowers at her, turns his                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  41

attention to the fax. 
 
He raises his eyebrows in surprise. HELEN departs. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Any closer on the other devices? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        No. But there s a major soap in the cell. Mary s 
              getting paranoid. Splitting with loverman. 
            Conversations are very generalised, coded, she 
            knows we re on to them in my opinion. They re 
          planning another strike, and looks like they re 
                              all in on the info. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Good work. Item number sixteen. 
 
He hands the fax to DANNY, who also raises his eyebrows. HARRY 
arrives from behind TOM. Peers at the fax. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Fascinating what people throw away, hmn? 
                                    (Tom nods) 
                                    Fresh air? 
 
TOM and HARRY walk off. 
 
 
TOM and HARRY sit on desks. Team is gathered. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              The Home Office have agreed to fast track 
          extradition proceedings against Mary Kane. They 
          want our papers prepared and inked as soon as 
                                      possible. 
 
Wave of disappointment across the office. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Can they not wait til we re done with her? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The timetable s immediate I m afraid. Once the 
        papers are signed, Special Branch want to arrest 
                                and detain Mary. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  So that s it. 
 
                                        TOM 
        She s still in our radar. We re not finished til 
                        she s on that bloody plane. 
 
 
MARY enters the church, walks down the aisle and genuflects to 
the altar. 
 
                                  FOXTROT S VOICE 
                          Foxtrot following target. 
 
 
FOXTROT enters the back of the church and sees a woman 
resembling MARY kneeling in the front pew. He takes a seat 
near the back of the church and pretends to pray, whilst 
keeping an eye on her. 
 
                              MAN S VOICE (V.O.) 
              Foxtrot, please confirm you have Target A. 
 
                                      FOXTROT 
                            (whispering into lapel) 
                                      Confirmed. 
 
The woman stands up to leave and we see it isn t MARY. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  44

                                FOXTROT (CONT D) 
                            Shit - that s a spark. 
 
He stands up and looks around, but the church is empty. 
 
                                    MAN S VOICE 
              Can anyone confirm contact with Target A? 
 
                                DELTA/ECHO (V.O.) 
                                      Negative. 
 
ZOE walks into the church, furious, looking around. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  (into radio) 
        We ve lost her. Plan B. Tell Keith Burns we need 
                              to borrow his kid. 
 
 
ZOE and RACHEL follow a male nurse who takes them towards 
Intensive Care. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                    Shouldn t she be in casualty...? 
 
                                        NURSE 
          She s in there. Oh--sorry. If you wouldn t mind 
          leaving your mobile phones outside. There s some 
                    sensitive equipment around here... 
 
ZOE hands her phone to this authority figure without a 
moment s thought. RACHEL, driven to conform, does the same. 
 
ZOE leads RACHEL into... 
 
 
This is SARAH S room. She is in a very bad way. RACHEL clings 
instinctively to her child, turns to ZOE. ZOE s tears have 
gone. And so has her  son . 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                                What s going on? 
 
TOM emerges from behind the door. Glances at SARAH. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  It s shocking, isn t it? Close up. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                                  Who are you? 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  47

She looks to the door. KEITH can be seen outside. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I ll be brief because we don t have much time. 
        Which is something Sarah here knows all about too. 
                                  Thanks to you. 
                                        (beat) 
        We know who you are. We know you re friends with 
        Mary Kane. We know what you re up to, we know who 
        you re targeting. Rachel, we know what coffee you 
        like for God s sake... What we don t know is when. 
 
A flicker from ZOE--this is a canny strategy. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                I don t know what you re talking about. 
 
She s upset, looking at this girl. Her son starts to cry. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Tell you what... why don t you tell your son why 
          this poor little girl s in this bed? Her name s 
        Sarah. And maybe after that you can tell him what 
              his Daddy really does in his spare time? 
 
                                        RACHEL 
                  I can t help you. I really--I can t. 
 
She s crying now. Her world is collapsing. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Mary doesn t care about saving children, Rachel. 
          Look at Sarah here. We have to stop her before 
              this happens again. Do you understand me? 
 
RACHEL is desperately trying to keep it together. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
      If you don t know, find out. Call this number. Day 
                  or night. If you get a conscience. 
 
He hands her a card. She leaves, staring daggers at Zoe. 
 
We hold on SARAH... she s fading fast. 
 
 
The nurse is waiting innocently. Hands RACHEL her mobile. 
KEITH glances at him. The nurse nods--all sorted. 
 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  48

RACHEL bundles her son into her car. DANNY observes all from 
the cab of an Ambulance. 
 
 
SURVEILLANCE MAN, in the back. Instead of medical kit, 
listening kit. He s twisting knobs... static--then: 
 
                                  RACHEL S VOICE 
                                  Rob... Rob?? 
 
 
RACHEL s on her cellphone. Crying. Driving badly. She thinks 
she s fucked it up. Her son sits silently weeping. 
 
                                        RACHEL 
            Jesus, Rob, they know.. I don t know who, the 
          police, they know... they know everything. They 
        know about me, where to find me, they know about 
          you, about Mary. They know about Sullivan, for 
        God s sake, they know Mary s gone to London--only 
                      thing they don t know is when! 
 
                                      ROB V.O. 
                    Just take it easy, alright? Easy! 
 
 
SURVEILLANCE MAN writes the word  SULLIVAN--LONDON  on a piece 
of paper. Hands it up to DANNY in the front seat. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              That ll do nicely. 
 
 
TOM and ZOE lean over DANNY, who s on his laptop. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Fifteen Doctor Sullivans in London registered at 
            the GMC. Only one works full time in family 
          planning. Diane Sullivan. Private practice, St. 
                                  John s Wood. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Get someone round there. No uniforms. 
 
 
TESSA approaches HARRY. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  49

                                        TESSA 
        I need your signature on those extradition papers 
                                    right now. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            (examining the papers) 
                  She s being taken to Florida, I see. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                  That s right. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      If that happens she ll face the Death Penalty. And 
        as you know Britain tries not to extradite people 
      to a certain death. Most of the time, anyway. Come 
          back when you can assure me there s no policy 
                              conflict, won t you? 
 
TESSA is not pleased. Exits without another word. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE, DANNY and HARRY. All exhausted but running on 
adrenaline. DANNY puts the phone down. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          If we stick a guard on Sullivan s house Mary s 
        going to spark and go to ground before we see her. 
 
                                        TOM 
          But I m not dangling a civilian as bait either. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            How old is Sullivan? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          (handing over photographs) 
                        Thirties. Divorced. No kids. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Lucky her. 
 
HELEN has arrived--she s sensed the excitement and is drawn to 
it, the moth to the proverbial incendiary device. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                                Ah--the cavalry. 
                          (could this be a break?) 
                    Anyone need any tea? Coffee? No? 
                                        (beat) 
                            We re okay, thank you. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  50

HARRY turns his back on poor old HELEN. 
 
                                        HELEN 
              Just to say, Sullivan s out of harm s way. 
 
ZOE tries to include her-- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Thanks Helen-- 
 
But HARRY is moving the team away from her. HELEN sighs. A 
phone rings nearby. She grabs it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Mary s going for something large scale. 
 
                                        TOM 
          She could be setting one. She could be setting 
        them all and saying to hell with it. She s clearly 
                            had it with the Brits. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Just with some. She talked about Dundee, that s 
                              more cells, surely. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          She s going nationwide. 
 
HELEN arrives again. Approaches TOM nervously. 
 
                                        HELEN 
        Tom, um... there s a woman in reception for you? 
                                  Christine Dale? 
 
TOM looks at her--surely not... TOM departs, HARRY walks 
towards his office. MALCOLM approaches ZOE. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              I have a camp bed. 
 
ZOE stares at him--sorry? 
 
                                MALCOLM (CONT'D) 
        I heard you were looking for somewhere to sleep in 
                                        town. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Oh--yeah. To rent, yes. A room, preferably, 
                                      Malcolm. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      Oh. Well, I have a camp bed. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  51

He walks off. DANNY turns to ZOE. Teasing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Don t burn your bridges. 
 
ZOE glares at him... shakes her head. 
 
 
TOM looks--perplexed. CHRISTINE DALE is here. Looking 
understandably furtive. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What the hell are you doing here? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      I didn t want to use the phone. 
 
On TOM s face: what s that supposed to mean? 
 
 
TOM blazes in. TESSA marches past on her way home. 
 
                                        TESSA 
            What was your girlfriend doing in the lobby? 
 
                                        TOM 
        She asked for a favour. But she didn t say please. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                      What s that supposed to mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
        None of your business. And by the way--she s not 
                                my girlfriend. 
 
WHIRLING WHIP PAN TO: 
 
 
TOM briefs HARRY, flanked by ZOE and DANNY. 
 
                                        TOM 
        They think we re stalling the extradition. If it 
          drags out any longer we re looking at a serious 
                              diplomatic incident. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I m sorry. Special relationship. Allies. NATO. 
                                  Marshall Plan. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Guy and Madonna. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                She was adamant? 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s hook or crook time. They re putting on the 
        brass knuckles. Paul Kane s execution is the day 
        after tomorrow, and it s good PR to get Mary back 
                            for his special day. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  53

                                        DANNY 
                  So bang goes the gently gently plan. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Bang indeed. 
                                (thinks--decision) 
        We get to her first, she stays in the country and 
        we might just have a chance of finding out where 
          the other bombs are. If --sorry, when--the U.S. 
            get their way, she s off. And God knows what 
                                  happens then. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Bloody Yanks. Everything s a sodding competition. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        (beat) 
                          Harry? What do you think? 
 
HARRY is very still. His pupils are pinpricks. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    (beat--softly) 
                        I think all kinds of things. 
 
 
SARAH LYNOTT is in a very bad way. MIKE sits by her bed, with 
his other daughter, CLAIRE. 
 
We pull back silently as a nurse attends--something serious is 
going down. The curtain is drawn. 
 
Sounds of hospital life continue o.s. But not here... 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                  Call to Justice. Here it is. Jesus. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: DANNY S COMPUTER SCREEN 
 
The Call to Justice website. Graphics, bells and whistles. And 
a long list of names. Amongst them:  KAREN LYNOTT  - her name, 
a line scored through it. 
He scrolls down to...  DIANE SULLIVAN . And an address. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
        They ve got all Sullivan s details, look. Good job 
                                  we moved her. 
 
PULLING BACK TO SCENE 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  54

DANNY and ZOE work frantically on their PCs. HELEN is 
distributing coffees. TOM is on the phone, listening. 
 
                                        HELEN 
                              (softly, to DANNY) 
                  Creature of the night, two o clock. 
 
Glancing up, DANNY sees HARRY enter the Grid with a slimy 
Foreign Office Mandarin (TOBY MCINNES). He s in his 50s, 
Oxbridge, senior--and he knows it. He wipes his finger idly 
across a shelf, examining the dust disdainfully. 
 
HARRY catches TOM s eye. TOM signals him to wait. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Foreign Office. Get out the garlic. 
 
TOM hangs up. Numbed. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Sarah Lynott just died. 
 
Deep breaths. For everyone. 
 
TOM walks off. DANNY slams his fist on his desk. 
 
 
TOM splashes water on his face. Deep breath. 
 
 
HARRY and TOM face TOBY MCINNES, who is addressing HARRY as if 
TOM isn t even in the room. Every so often he notices a spot 
of dust on the table - and wipes it with his kerchief. 
 
                                        TOBY 
        There s a bigger picture here, gentlemen, and I m 
                    not quite sure you re seeing it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            What s the Foreign Office got to do with it? 
 
                                        TOBY 
          Surely you appreciate in the current coalition 
          climate... the UK cannot be seen to do anything 
            but support the U.S. of A. wholeheartedly, 
                                unreservedly, and-- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Unquestioningly? 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  55

                                        TOBY 
            Indeed yes, Thomas. They re our best friends, 
                                    after all. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  And they re telling us what to do. 
 
                                        TOBY 
          They re the big boy in the playground and right 
        now if they asked to roger us over a barrel we d 
          thank them kindly and make them tea afterwards. 
          What s more, I presume you re aware of an oral 
                      contraceptive called Mendocryn? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                I m a little out of touch with those. 
 
                                        TOBY 
            Helps prevent thrombosis as well as the usual 
                        population control benefits. 
            Athol Pharmaceuticals. Based near Cambridge. 
        They ve developed it here but now they re looking 
                for a licence overseas, specifically... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      America. 
 
                                        TOBY 
                Well done Thomas. On the ball as ever. 
 
TOM rubs his eyes. Of course. Upset turns to anger. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          And should Mary Kane get delayed any longer... 
 
                                        TOBY 
        We have it on good authority the licence will hit 
            trouble in the land of the free. You know you 
          really must change this flooring, it s gorgeous 
                                  over at Six-- 
 
                                        TOM 
        You would, wouldn t you? Even now. With all that 
                                  could happen. 
 
            HARRY glances over at TOM. TOBY enjoys the 
                  tension. And yet again ignores TOM. 
 
                                        TOBY 
        His Imperial Highness the Foreign Secretary wants 
        you to sit on your hands and that s exactly what 
          you re going to do. Special Branch can take it 
                                    from here.                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  56

 
TOBY pushes the extradition assessment forms across to HARRY. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      They ll have to find her first. 
 
TOBY doesn t pick up TOM s meaning. HARRY does. 
 
                                        TOBY 
        I m not expecting you to help them. Just pretend 
        you re busy with the new world order or whatever 
        else it is you re up to. And try to remember this 
          licence is worth three billion pounds a year to 
                British industry. Losing that would be 
                                    catastrophic. 
 
                                        TOM 
            You spirit her out of the country and more 
            innocent people will die. That s what I call 
                                    catastrophic. 
 
TOBY is rather amused by TOM s anger. TOM gets up and leaves. 
HARRY watches him go. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I signed up here because I knew who the enemy was 
        and I wanted to fight them. These days they don t 
        even have a flag. I preferred it when the bad guys 
                                    had a flag. 
 
                                        TOBY 
              Least you knew where you were I suppose. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Gave them something to put on the coffin. 
 
HARRY takes out a pen and signs the documents. Passes the 
documents back. TOBY is pleased. Job done. He wipes his hands 
on his handkerchief. 
 
                                        TOBY 
                              So. Where is she? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      (smiles) 
                    No idea, old boy. We ve lost her. 
 
TOBY s face falls. 
 
 
More coffee. More buzz. HELEN goes through a memo with DANNY. 
 
                                        HELEN 
        Sullivan s schedule this weekend. Pretty clockwork                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  58

        life, actually. Mary wont have difficulty finding 
                her - we know she s done her homework. 
 
ZOE views photos of Sullivan. TOM approaches. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You sure about this? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              (holding up photo) 
          Same height; same build, Tom. Long as you look 
        after me and the Dressers do their job properly, 
                                  I ll be fine. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Danny s heading up the surveillance team. 
 
ZOE looks at DANNY. DANNY has overheard, presses mute. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Hope you re as good as you think you are. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Don t worry, I m better. 
 
TOM walks away, followed by HARRY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              He s a little inexperienced for such a big 
                                      operation. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s got the highest ratings of anyone I ve seen 
        pass through TC10. And I ll be watching him every 
                                step of the way. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Sullivan s definitely the target...? 
 
                                        TOM 
          As definite as we can get in this job, Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        And you realise you ve officially been warned off 
                                    Mary Kane. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Oh, we re not going to touch her. 
 
HARRY looks doe-eyed at TOM. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  59

                                        HARRY 
                    Of course, Tom. Whatever you say. 
 
 
In the gloom, the doors are opened. One by one, the holdalls 
are removed by hands we ve not seen before. 
 
 
Old coffee mugs everywhere. ZOE rubs her eyes. It s been an 
all-nighter. But now she s dressed exactly like DIANE 
SULLIVAN. She s younger, sure. But from a distance... she s 
hard to recognise as ZOE. 
 
MALCOLM arrives with a stack of papers. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Driving licence, purse, receipts, car keys, house 
                              keys, donor card. 
                                        (beat) 
                                  Just in case. 
 
ZOE takes them. Examines them. Puts them in her pocket. Nerves 
starting to jangle. TOM arrives--a look: okay? 
 
ZOE nods. Glances over at DANNY--he s at a computer that 
displays a hugely complex surveillance plan... DANNY senses 
her stare and looks up. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Placements all over the shop. Back up vehicles, 
        chopper support if we need it. Bomb disposal with 
            a signal jammer for Mary s trademark remote 
        control blasts. And Tom here s doing the catering. 
                          Mate. You are so covered. 
 
ZOE tries a smile--but it s hard. She leaves with TOM. 
 
 
MARY sits on her bed, anonymously dressed. Next to her, a 
holdall. In her hand--a photograph. It s of Paul. 
 
A radio is on. An American vox pop on World Service: 
 
                                  AMERICAN VOICE 
            ..in accordance with an order from the U.S. 
                  District Court, Southern District of                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  60

                Florida, inmate 209344, Paul John Kane, 
            is scheduled to be executed at Florida State 
                        Penetentiary later today.... 
 
Moving closer, we see that MARY is crying. She kisses the 
photo. Then takes out a lighter and sets fire to it. 
 
In an ashtray, the picture of Paul curls up and oxidises. 
 
 
ZOE drives Sullivan s car. Behind her, a biker in a black 
helmet: 
 
POV -- HELMET CAM 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                  What s Smiley s favourite cocktail? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Moscow mules, George, Moscow mules. 
                                        (BEAT) 
                          Loud and clear thank you. 
 
Danny sits with Tom. Both on the cans. 
 
                                      VOICE ONE 
                                  Still no sign. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      (Checking Sullivan s schedule) 
                          Time for market, I think 
 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Ok, Zoe. Bring her in. 
 
                                      ZOE V.O. 
                                      Tally ho. 
 
DANNY looks at TOM. TOM manages a smile. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Right, ladies and gents, your MC today will be DJ 
                                Spookman. Sign on? 
 
A series of voices: 
 
 
ZOE pulls into a space. MARY s Micra passes in the b.g. 
 
                                    VOICE THREE 
                  We have a contact, contact, contact. 
 
MARY drives calmly in, parks near the exit, fifty feet away. 
 
The Biker on a motorbike enters moments later, parks in the 
bike zone. Removes her helmet, holds it in MARYs direction. 
 
POV--HELMET CAM 
 
We see the car park bounce around. The market is relatively 
busy--a few couples, pensioners, singles, meandering amongst                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  62

the terracotta pots. 
 
 
Parked further up the street. DANNY is soaked with sweat. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Let s get an I.D. confirmed. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Someone, I need an I.D. Anyone. 
 
                                  VOICE (BIKER) 
                                    How s that? 
 
ON A MONITOR--HELMET CAM 
 
We can see: grainy colour footage of MARY as she walks towards 
the entrance to the market, holdall in one hand, mobile phone 
in the other. Glancing back every so often to ZOE s car. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
              Hold all, mobile phone, looks like remote 
        detonation. How much plastic explosive can you put 
                                  in a holdall? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
            Enough to make this car park look like Ground 
                                        Zero. 
 
 
ZOE pretends to be adjusting her seat. 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
        Okay Zoe, contact confirmed. Move it along inside, 
            she s waiting for you. Sound off if you re in 
                        visual with agent or target. 
 
ZOE gets out of the car. Nerves jangling. 
 
We walk with her as she slowly approaches MARY, who is 
pretending to admire some gnomes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          She s looking at gnomes. 
 
                                  DANNY S VOICE 
        Keep it together Zoe. The gnomes are on your side. 
 
As she gets closer and closer to MARY...a variety of 
customers, workers, pensioners, daytrippers--all sound off                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  63

quietly... everyone in this place is a spook. 
 
                                      VOICE ONE 
                                Alpha One clear. 
 
                                      VOICE TWO 
                      Alpha Two, target approaching. 
 
BRIEFLY, IN SLO-MO: 
 
MARY turns--and exits--the two women pass each other. A polite 
smile. Good morning to you. 
 
 
DANNY adjusts his mic and glances at TOM. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Standby for lift. 
 
TOM glares at him for a moment. Points to his monitor--showing 
the Helmet CAM of MARY and her holdall... MARY s now walking 
back towards ZOE s car. ZOE still at the entrance. 
 
                                        TOM 
        See that bag? She could have ten devices in there. 
                  You still want to go give her a hug? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                We could jam it. 
 
                                        TOM 
          If we knew for sure it was remote detonation. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Which we don t. 
  
DANNY scans the screens as: 
 
                              DISPOSAL EXPERT V.O. 
                Alpha Zero, Bravo One. Slight problem. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    What is it? 
 
                              DISPOSAL EXPERT V.O. 
                    Something s wrong with the jammer. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Slight problem? 
 
                              DISPOSAL EXPERT V.O. 
            Technical glitch. There s enough power for a                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  64

                  thirty second burst. But that s it. 
 
DANNY looks at him--so what do we do? 
 
                                        TOM 
                Keep it tight til she leaves the kit. 
 
 
ZOE is waiting calmly by the gnomes as a whirlwind of chatter 
buzzes in her ear. 
She can see MARY approaching ZOE s car. When she emerges into 
clear vision again, she s not holding the bag anymore. 
 
                              DISPOSAL EXPERT V.O. 
                    Full spectrum ready when you are. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                                  On my signal. 
 
MARY removes her phone and starts to walk away. ZOE moves 
towards her, to get a view  
  
                              DISPOSAL EXPERT V.O. 
                                      Engaging.  
 
TOM is already out of the van-- MARY sees him. Susses the 
situation immediately. Stand off. TOM takes a step towards 
her--her thumb moves to the button. TOM stops. 
 
She smiles. Glances over at ZOE. 
 
MARY presses send--nothing. She presses it again. And again. 
Frustration builds into a scream as she keeps pressing-! She 
stares at her phone s display. It reads:  NETWORK SEARCH...  
 
Army bomb disposal team sit with complicated equipment. 
 
                                DISPOSAL EXPERT 
        Power keeping steady. Fifteen seconds. Fourteen. 
                                      Thirteen... 
 
 
MARY stands, frozen to the spot, pressing buttons on her 
mobile. TOM calmly walks over, puts his hand on her arm and 
takes the mobile from her. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  65

Spooks converge on them from all over the market. 
 
 
MARY sits on one side of the table. TOM sits calmly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Who and where. That s all. 
 
                                        MARY 
                                I can t help you. 
 
                                        TOM 
            You want to walk out of here? Be my guest. 
 
MARY sits tight. She knows she s in trouble. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
            Who has the other devices? Who ve you been 
                                  speaking to? 
 
                                        MARY 
                Paul was right. You guys are pathetic. 
 
                                        TOM 
        In four hours, Paul s going to the electric chair 
            for killing a doctor. I d call that pretty 
                                      pathetic. 
 
                                        MARY 
                                Leave him alone. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s the reason though, isn t he? He s why you re 
        over here and causing pain. I mean: you pray for 
        him every morning. At least, so long as Steve was 
          in the room. All for show, of course. I know, I 
        had to listen to you. That s the bummer about this 
        job. I had to listen to your sanctimonious drivel 
                              every single day. 
 
                                        MARY 
        Paul never killed an innocent person in his life. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Unlike you, of course. 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  66

                                        MARY 
                          My conscience is clear. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I doubt that very much. 
 
                                        MARY 
          How about you? Spying for a living. Lying and 
        betraying your friends and family. You should take 
                        another look in the mirror. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I help protect this country from the likes of you. 
 
                                        MARY 
        Oh really? And who s protecting the country from 
          you? You re a fraud. Your whole life is a lie. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    My life is none of your business. 
 
She s rattled him and she s pleased. 
 
                                        MARY 
              I stand by my beliefs. I doubt you ve ever 
              believed in anything in your entire life. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I believe killing people in the cause of life is 
          just about the stupidest thing I ve ever come 
        across. Right up there next to God wanted me to do 
              it. But you don t stick around to see the 
            consequences, do you? You don t get to see what 
        your beliefs do right up close to innocent little 
                                        girls. 
 
                                        MARY 
                            That was unfortunate. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Really? Well here s something else pretty 
          unfortunate. You ll be on Death Row by the time 
                                you give birth. 
                                      (silence) 
          We found the pregnancy kit, by the way. In your 
                      rubbish. Blue. Congratulations. 
 
                                        MARY 
                            You people are scum. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Does Paul know? I guess not. He d be more than a                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  67

                                little surprised. 
 
                                        MARY 
        Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee... 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Bible games? Okay, I ve got one. 
 
He presses PLAY on a tape recorder. The surveillance from the 
bedroom plays. MARY having sex with STEVEN. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                    Thou shalt not commit adultery. 
 
MARY silently contemplates this. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
            Wow, you must really love your husband to do 
                              something like that. 
 
MARY s eyes cloud with tears and regret... 
 
                                        MARY 
        I love Paul. I love the Cause just as much. I do 
                              what I have to do. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Tell us where the bombs are, tell us your network, 
            you stay with us, we fly you back to a State 
            without the death penalty. Get a homey little 
          prison with a creche. Keep quoting the Bible at 
          me, keep pretending you re doing this for any 
        other reason than revenge and I swear this sound 
        will be the last your husband will ever hear. And 
            the CIA will take you somewhere you really 
        wouldn t wish on your worst enemy. Let me put that 
                              another way, Mary. 
                                        (beat) 
                  I m giving you the right to choose. 
 
                                        MARY 
          And before thou camest forth out of the womb I 
                              sanctified thee... 
 
                                        TOM 
          Thou shalt not kill. Thirty love. Want to keep 
                                      playing? 
 
MARY assesses. TOM can see he s won. 
 
                                        MARY 
          After me, there will be more. Don t think that                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  68

                                    it s over. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                It s never over. 
                              (picks up the phone) 
                                  I m listening. 
 
 
Can t see who s in front. In the back, TOM and MARY. TOM leans 
forward to the unseen driver. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Just up here guys.  
                                    (to Mary) 
        My friends in the front seat will see you to your 
                                        plane. 
 
                                        MARY 
                          I hope you burn in hell. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We checked up on those names and addresses. You 
                were telling the truth. I m impressed. 
 
                                        MARY 
                You wouldn t be doing this if I d lied. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Guess that s true. Have a nice trip. 
 
He gets up and leaves the car. And now we see--ZOE and DANNY 
are in front. But they too get out at speed. MARY, confused, 
looks behind--what? 
 
Two people get in either side of her. One is CHRISTINE DALE. 
The other is one of the CIA guys. Two more in front. CHRISTINE 
drops a brochure in her lap. It says  Florida . 
                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  70

                                      CHRISTINE 
                    Hey Mary. Ready for DisneyWorld? 
 
MARY tries to scan outside for TOM-- 
 
                                        MARY 
                              You lying bastard! 
 
But TOM, ZOE and DANNY are nowhere to be seen... meanwhile: 
 
 
Our three get into the car. It drives off into the night. 
 
 
ELLIE regards TOM as she lets him in. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                      Things? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Things. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                  Fair enough. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I m sorry. I m really sorry. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                            Matthew. I need to know. 
                                  (Tom is ready)                                                       Spooks\Season 1\Episode 1 Page  71

                                  Who are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  (deep breath) 
                      A man who loves you very much. 
 
He hugs her. On her face: she s trying to work that one out. 
MAISIE bursts in, her hair a mess of chaotic pigtails. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              Back to bed, you! 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                          I ve got a new hairstyle. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Looks lovely. 
 
MAISIE looks at TOM very carefully. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                  You re a liar. 
 
Hold on TOM s reaction: the smallest, briefest flicker. 
 
FADE OUT 
 
END OF EPISODE 