
In a field of aqua tile, SARAH, 38, intense and lovely, rubs thick 
cream into her face and neck, trying to find an angle in the 
morning light where she likes the way she looks.


The half-placed evidence of a life about to either start or end. A 
ratty couch below a haphazard piece of garage sale so bad-it s-
good-art. A shitty lamp. 

ALI, 33, dark and awkward and pretty, drinks coffee and alternates 
between internetting or STARING into the LUSH COURTYARD. 

Across the way, her neighbor WALLIS, 50, a past-her-prime 
Hollywood nutjob, opens her windows like an Italian movie star.

Ali STARES. 

Wallis seems to be in her own world. Until she TURNS to Ali.

                                          WALLIS
                                (straight to Ali)
                        I see you.

On Ali, freaked. She looks back at her computer. Her PHONE RINGS. 
She notices who is calling and ANSWERS IT.

                                          ALI
                        Dad? TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    2



Perfectly placed self-published Brooklyn style journals. Perfectly 
placed everything. On a leather couch, find 

JOSHUA, 29, scruffy and lanky and adorable. His legs wrap around 
the half-dressed but wildly fashionable BRANNON, way too young-- 
maybe 17, maybe 19. 

                                          JOSHUA
                        Ping Pong tournament.

                                            BRANNON
                        For real?

                                          JOSHUA
                        It s at the Downtown Standard, it 
                        will be an ironic Ping Pong 
                          tournament. 

                                            BRANNON
                        Yeah, the kind with artisan beer.
                                (then)
                        Except for that s the night we re 
                        playing at Hotel Cafe. 
                                (teasing)
                        I think my label should be keeping 
                        better track of our shows.

Joshua smiles as he traces his finger on her tight tummy.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Your label is understandably 
                          distracted.

She brushes his hand away.

                                            BRANNON
                        Hey. Too tickle-y.

Joshua s phone VIBRATES on the coffee table. He grabs it.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Yeah?


Josh s hand is in Brannon s underwear as she texts. They HEAR the 
SOUND of KEYS in the door. 

                                            BRANNON
                        Who else has keys?

                                          JOSHUA
                        My sister. She had keys before you 
                        had keys.

It s Ali, sweaty from the park. She spots Brannon.

                                          ALI
                              (dead inside)
                        Oh, hi. 

Brannon gets up and heads to the bathroom, barely covering her 
nudity. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    7


                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        No body shame, that one.
                                (then)
                        Okay, so I thought of one.

Ali makes the CRAZIEST face in the world.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I will allow it.

                                          ALI
                        Now you.

Joshua makes a CRAZY FACE.

                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        You made that one in Snowmass when 
                        you were nine.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I tried to teach Brannon  make a 
                        face you ve never made before  but 
                        she didn t get it.

                                          ALI
                        Well, why would she, Josh? WHY 
                        WOULD SHE? 
                                (then)
                        Can I drive with you to Dad s? His 
                        whole thing s got a vaguely  I ve 
                        got cancer-ish  vibe.

                                          JOSHUA
                        If he s smart, he ll start gifting 
                        us twelve thousand a year til it s 
                        gone. 

                                          ALI
                        I know he s got a lot more than 
                        that stashed.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I ll negotiate on your behalf.

                                          ALI
                        What s to negotiate? He ll split 
                        it three ways. He loves us all the 
                        same. 


Sarah zips around her kitchen like a hummingbird, loading a roast 
and vegetables into a Le Creuset.  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    8


In a single bound, she sprays and wipes the counter top, and 
brings ZACK, 6, and ELLA, 4, cups and snacks in the adjacent GREAT 
ROOM.

Ella plays a game on her iPad TV as Zack lies on the floor, 
staring at a TRAIN as it goes around a track.

                                            SARAH
                        Zacky, don t you want to do 
                        something else besides your train?

Sarah s husband LEN, 42, thinning hair, moves through the room, 
typing messages into his phone manically. 

                                          LEN
                        Okay, go on--

                                            SARAH
                        --and so I thought maybe she and I 
                        would get the girls together after 
                        school.

                                          LEN
                        Coo.

                                            SARAH
                        So I should have them over here? 

                                          LEN
                        Or put a dinner on the books.

                                            SARAH
                        With Tammy and her partner?

                                          LEN
                        Who s her husband?

Beat, then:

                                            SARAH
                        Tammy Hardwicke. She s the lesbian 
                        I went to college with.

                                          LEN
                        Oh, right. That s fine too. I like 
                        lesbians.

Sarah thinks about saying more. She WATCHES LEN adjust his reading 
glasses, and decides to leave it. 

                                            SARAH
                        Avalea?
                                (then)
                        AVALEA?! Have you seen my good 
                        bra? TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    9



On the 10 West. Joshua drives a FANCY BMW. He yaks on 
speakerphone, on a business call. 

Ali sits shotgun, picking at her nails. 

                                          JOSHUA
                        --she just plays the fucking 
                        violin, she doesn t have any say 
                        about the mix. You know what, no, 
                        Howie, I will not share that with 
                        them right now because I don t 
                        want the whole band to despise me. 
                                (then)
                        My sister is calling, gonna run. 
                        Bah.

Joshua presses a button, switching calls.

                                          JOSHUA (CONT D)
                        We re at Vermont.

                                                                        INTERCUT WITH:


Sarah s also on the 10, speaking on speakerphone.

                                            SARAH
                        I m at Bundy, but I might be a bit 
                        late. He asked me to pick up 
                        barbecue for all of us.

                                          ALI
                        Shotgun Willy s?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Jimmyfuck McToodle s.

                                            SARAH 
                        Saucy Netherton s.

Atop each other s voices, in unison, they throw as many nonsense 
names on the pile as humanly possible:

                                              ALI/JOSH/SARAH
                        Hungry Fingerbang s/Wingtip 
                          McCrosbys/Horndog O Hannigans/Blue 
                        Balls Beartrappers/Coco-berry 
                          Ragtime/Skipdangity Snackbaggers--

                                            SARAH 
                        Okay friends, let s just collect 
                        ourselves. It s Shotgun Willy s.  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    10


                                          ALI
                        Please don t get any cornbread. 
                        I m gluten-free guys.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Oh, yeah, this one has come down 
                        with that LA-induced gluten 
                        intolerance. Apparently caused my 
                        smog. Get the cornbread, Sarah. I 
                        NEED it. Ali, we just won t let 
                        you eat it.

                                          ALI
                        That is mean, guys.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I ll tie your hands together if 
                        you can t control yourself.

                                            SARAH
                        So who thinks Dad has cancer?

                                          ALI
                        Josh said that too! Do ya think? 

                                          JOSHUA
                        Oh, and get cole slaw. Unless it s 
                        the kind with peanuts, then tell 
                        them to go fuck themselves.


Sarah looks around at the families having dinner. The lonely older 
singles at the bar. The sports game on MASSIVE TV. 

The BARTENDER s smile is way-too-jovial as he pours cocktails in 
the glow of the year-round, colored Christmas lights.

A HOSTESS brings out GIANT BAGS of to-go-food.

                                            SARAH
                        Thanks.

Sarah signs the bill, gives it back. The hostess looks at the SIZE 
OF THE TIP-- it s HUGE. 

                                            HOSTESS
                        Whoa, thanks!

On Sarah, ashamed of something-- she NEEDS to give away her money, 
make grand gestures-- yet wishes she could be ANONYMOUS.  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    11



MORT, 70, is a LARGE, IMPOSING man, shoulders hunched from YEARS 
of some kind of a WEIGHT. As Sarah unloads too much food from the 
restaurant bags, he kisses Sarah s face. She FLINCHES.

                                          MORT
                        My good girl. Good good good girl. 
                        You always know just how much to 
                        get.

                                            SARAH
                        Put it on my headstone. 

In the ADJACENT LIVING ROOM,

Joshua and Ali sit on the floor looking through old records.

                                          JOSHUA
                        YES! Here it is.

He pulls out the The Broadway Cast Recording of Jesus Christ 
Superstar.

                                          JOSHUA (CONT D)
                        Look, you scratched this guy when 
                        you made it a Barbie skating rink. 

Ali sits with her knees inverted, LIKE A CHILD. She flips through 
the Broadway Cast Album of HAIR, and the Herb Albert and the 
Tijuana Brass album with a naked woman covered in whipped cream.

Finally, Ali finds JIM CROCE S OPERATOR.

                                          ALI
                        This one.
                                (singing)
                        Operator
                        could you help me place this call? 

                                          JOSHUA
                                (singing)
                        --see the number on the matchbook 
                        is old and faded

                                            JOSH/ALI
                                (singing)
                        --she's living in L.A. 
                        with my best old ex-friend Ray  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    12

                                            JOSH/ALI (CONT'D)
                        a guy she said she knew well 
                        and sometimes hated--

Mort WALKS IN and stares at them.

                                          MORT
                        Hey. I love you guys.

Joshua and Ali look at each other: is he okay?

                                            SARAH (O.S.)
                        Come and get din-din, guys!

                                          MORT
                        Sarah went ahead and put dinner 
                        out on the counter. People can 
                        just take.

                                          JOSHUA
                        By people you mean us, right?


Mort, Joshua, Sarah and Ali sit around a big round wooden table, 
eating barbecue. 

Throughout the following, Sarah watches everyone gnawing. The 
SIGHT grows more horrific, chewing on bones, food on faces, black 
specks on teeth. 

                                          ALI
                        --and I see her in the elevator, 
                        says nothing, down on Wilshire 
                        buying cigarettes, never a word, 
                        and then this morning, she s like-- 
                        her name is Wallis-- she s like, 
                        staring across the courtyard at 
                        me:  I see you .

                                          JOSHUA
                        Creepy.

                                          ALI
                        She s one of those casualty 
                        people. Ex heiress princess 
                        something. Most beautiful girl in 
                        whatever town she came from. Every 
                        homecoming queen and prom king 
                        from every town in America has 
                        been coming to LA for the past 
                        fifty years. And breeding. Making 
                        an entire generation of turbo-
                        beautiful young people. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    13


                                          JOSHUA
                        Many of whom like to have sexual 
                          intercourse with me.

Sarah can NO LONGER STAND THE SIGHT of her family s barbecue-y 
faces.

                                            SARAH
                        YOU GUYS ARE DISGUSTING.

                                          ALI
                        What s wrong with you?

                                            SARAH
                        You have food all over your face.

On Joshua, covered in sauce.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I do?

                                          ALI
                        You do.

                                          JOSHUA
                              (to Ali)
                        So do you, you ve got something on 
                        you, right there.

Joshua gets sauce off of Ali s ear and licks his finger.

                                          ALI
                        How did I get sauce on my ear?

                                          JOSHUA
                        It s also on your elbow. See, we 
                        all do. You do too.

                                            SARAH
                        I do not.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Oh, Sarah s so perfect because she 
                        knows how to eat barbecue without 
                        getting sauce on her face. Yay 
                        Sarah. Okay, Dad, let the cat out, 
                        what would compel you to ask us to 
                        drive out here on a school night. 
                        In rush hour traffic.

Mort takes a DEEP BREATH. All three kids exchange nervous, 
perplexed looks. Finally: TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    14


                                          MORT
                        I want to move out of the house. I 
                        think I m gonna sell.

                                          ALI
                        Oh my god, Dad, I thought you were 
                        dying. We thought you were dying. 
                        Jesus. 

                                          MORT
                        Dying?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Why do you want to move?

                                          MORT
                        I m not a Palisades person 
                        anymore. Not a house person--

                                          JOSHUA
                        West side? Santa Monica?

                                          MORT
                        --or West Hollywood. A condo, an 
                        apartment, something I don t have 
                        to maintain--

                                            SARAH
                        Okay, well, please let me talk to 
                        Len about it before you do 
                        anything. He s been talking about 
                        moving us west for years now.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Wait wait wait-- if we put a few 
                        hundred thousand into it we could 
                        flip this bitch and make a shit 
                        load.

                                          ALI
                        How come you guys just get to 
                        decide what happens with the 
                        house? Why can t I have the house?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Because you don t have any money.

                                          ALI
                        That s why I need a house, dumb 
                        ass. Dad, you have some sauce 
                        right here.

                                          MORT
                        Where? TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    15


Ali motions for Mort to get sauce off the side of his nose.

                                            SARAH
                        It s on your nose, Dad.

                                          JOSHUA
                        You too, Sarah, you have some in 
                        your vagina.

                                            SARAH
                        God, shut up.

                                          JOSHUA
                        You do. Sarah has barbecue sauce 
                        in her vagina.

Ali LAUGHS. Sarah SCOWLS.

                                          MORT
                        All right now, that s enough.


Close on Mort s hand as he COUNTS OUT SOME CASH, rolls it up and 
puts it in his pocket.


Mort takes a DEEP BREATH. Something s up. And it s not just the 
house.

He picks up his phone, dials.

                                          MORT
                              (into phone)
                        Hi.
                                (then)
                        No. I couldn t do it.
                                (then)
                        Yeah, just made it about selling 
                        the house. 
                                (then)
                        Sarah said she wants it. She has a 
                        family. This is a good 
                        neighborhood for families. I might 
                        just give it to her.

A few more beats, then:

                                          MORT (CONT D)
                        No, thank you, Francie. Thank you. 
                        There is no way I could get 
                        through this without you.


Sarah heads into Hollywood to drop Ali off.

                                          ALI
                        And Len really doesn t care?

                                            SARAH
                        I m sure he just assumes that 
                        everyone experiments in college.

                                          ALI
                        Oh, I get it. That s how you sold 
                        it. 

                                            SARAH
                        I didn t have to sell it. That s 
                        the truth. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    19


                                          ALI
                        Um, actually, no, LUGs are 
                        sorority girls who make out at 
                        parties for the benefit of boys 
                        who are watching. You and Tammy 
                        lived together, and like, ran the 
                        co-op together. Almost adopted a 
                        those two Latino gangbanger kids 
                        together.

                                            SARAH
                        Oh, Jesus, we were never going to 
                        adopt Latino gangbanger kids 
                        together, we were in college.

                                          ALI
                        Tammy was in grad school and 
                        already working at that social 
                        worker place. I distinctly 
                        remember you calling me and saying 
                         Tammy and I are going to adopt a 
                        two brothers named Paul and Tino . 
                        I distinctly remember it.

                                            SARAH
                        Maybe we were going to foster.
                                (then)
                        They weren t gangbangers.

Sarah pulls her car up in front of The Talmadge.

                                            SARAH (CONT D)
                        You good with money? You have 
                        enough?

                                          ALI
                        Pretty much.

                                            SARAH
                        That place ever call?

                                          ALI
                        They never hire people they don t 
                        know. I m sure I was just lost in 
                        a pile of resumes. It would be 
                        easier for me to get into Swiss 
                        banking.

                                            SARAH
                        Your settlement money s gotta be 
                        running out.

                                          ALI
                        I m fine. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    20


                                            SARAH
                        Let me just give you a little.

                                          ALI
                        Only if it s easy.

                                            SARAH
                        Of course it s easy.

Ali GOES THROUGH HER WALLET and hands Ali all of her remaining 
cash.

                                          ALI
                        I love you.

                                            SARAH
                        Love you too.

Sarah watches as Ali gets out and heads into her building.


The place has threadbare carpets. A couch with a faded, thin 
Hawaiian throw on it.

Joshua OPENS THE FRIDGE, grabs a beer. He CALLS OUT to someone 
unseen.

                                          JOSHUA 
                        You know I m here, right?


We can HEAR the ocean outside, through a crack in the sliding 
door. 

Reveal Joshua, sitting on the couch, pants around his ankles--

--getting a BLOWJOB from an older, CURVY WOMAN.


Ali pours hot water from a tea kettle into a French Press. She 
LOOKS FOR WALLIS in the courtyard, but she s not there.


Sarah and Len do their morning routines. Casual, married, hetero-
bed-death nudity. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    21


                                          LEN
                        Let me do my due diligence and 
                        talk to Howard and Barry. He 
                        should at least let us put in an 
                        offer.

                                            SARAH
                        Yeah, that s what I was thinking 
                        you were going to think.

                                          LEN
                        So, GOOD GOOD GOOD then! You 
                        finally ready to get out of this 
                        ghetto?

                                            SARAH
                        Los Feliz isn t a ghetto.

                                          LEN
                        Palisades has better schools for 
                        the kids.

                                            SARAH
                        Yeah. I guess that s a reason to 
                        live there.

But on Sarah s face, something s GONE DARK.


Joshua and Brannon have just woken up. Light streams in. Joshua 
stares at Brannon s perfect WASPy nose. He touches it.

                                            BRANNON
                        What time did you come to bed last 
                        night?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Midnight, angel.

                                            BRANNON
                        I was awake at midnight and you 
                        weren t here yet.

                                          JOSHUA
                          Twelve-fifteen.

                                            BRANNON
                        I don t get why you even wanted me 
                        to sleep over if you were gonna be 
                        that late.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Shush, because I can t sleep 
                        without you next to me now. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    22


                                            BRANNON
                        Always Ambien.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I hate taking those. 
                                (then)
                        My dad is selling my house.

                                            BRANNON
                        Your house?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Just the house we grew up in.

                                            BRANNON
                        How old were you when your parents 
                        got divorced? 

                                          JOSHUA
                        Fifteen.

                                            BRANNON
                        Know the reason why?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Only what they told us. That they 
                        weren t in love anymore. 


SHELLY, 65 and decked out in 1993 Jewish diva- red glasses, chunky 
jewelry, Asian-inspired soft dressing-- sits across the table from 
her husband, the elderly and robotic ED.

                                          SHELLY
                                (rising anger)
                        --and I says, I says: I didn t 
                        join this board to watch you turn 
                        it from people who care deeply 
                        about Palm Terrace into a bunch of 
                        newbies who never sat on a condo 
                        board before-- 

Shelly BLAZES FORTH without noticing whether Ed is listening.

There s a knock at the door. Shelly gets up to open it. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    23


                                          SHELLY (CONT D)
                        --and never dealt with special 
                          assessments before and never dealt 
                        with approved bids. Never dealt 
                        with shit, frankly. 

She lets Ali in.

                                          ALI
                        Hi Mommy.

Shelly takes the shopping bags out of her hands.

                                          SHELLY
                        Yum, what did you bring me?

                                          ALI
                          Vietnamese. Bahn Mi, Goi Cuon--

                                          SHELLY
                        Did you get me my turmeric fish 
                        noodles--

                                          ALI
                        Your turmeric fish noodles--


Ali sit across from Shelly and Ed on the couches. They all eat 
from plates in their laps.

                                          SHELLY
                        --he s going to get a lot of money 
                        from it. Do you know that we 
                        bought that house in nineteen-
                          seventy-three for fifty-two 
                        thousand dollars? That s quite a 
                        profit.

                                          ALI
                        You don t get any of it?

                                          SHELLY
                        He s done paying me out. He 
                        probably needs the cash. Dating 
                        younger women doesn t come cheap 
                        these days.

                                          ALI
                        Hey, you know what I was 
                        wondering?

                                          SHELLY
                        No. I do not. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    24


                                          ALI
                        Why d you let him keep all the 
                        records?

                                          SHELLY
                        You know I don t care for music.

Ali watches the way her mother and Ed eat.

                                          ALI
                        Mom?

                                          SHELLY
                        Yeah?

                                          ALI
                        How come you guys never taught us 
                        how to eat? You just picked up 
                        lettuce with your hands.

                                          SHELLY
                        I taught you plenty. Heard from 
                        your brother? He never calls.

                                          ALI
                        Yeah. In love again, some girl 
                        that s too young and too goyishe.

                                          SHELLY
                        What else is new? How about your 
                        sister? She never calls.

                                          ALI
                        Her life is too busy. If you want 
                        to see her you should go help her 
                        with Ella and Zacky.

                                          SHELLY
                        She hovers when I watch those 
                        kids. I can t stand it. Anyway, 
                        she knows where to find me.

A beat, then:

                                          ALI
                                (whispering)
                        Is Ed okay?

On Ed, expressionless.

                                          SHELLY
                        He can hear you, go ahead and ask 
                        him. Everyone thinks that ever 
                        since he started losing words he 
                        also stopped being able to hear.  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    25

                                          SHELLY (CONT'D)
                        But his hearing is still the same! 
                        HE CAN HEAR.

                                          ALI
                        Hi, Ed.

Ed smiles.

                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        You okay, Ed?

Ed gives TWO THUMBS UP.

                                          SHELLY
                        See?


Ali pees in the dark. The door opens.

                                          ALI
                        SOMEONE S IN HERE!

                                          SHELLY
                        It s just me.

                                          ALI
                        Mom, I like privacy.

                                          SHELLY
                        Oh, I ve seen it all. Look at you, 
                        sitting in the dark.

Shelly FLIPS ON THE LIGHT.

                                          ALI
                        I M ON THE TOILET!

                                          SHELLY
                        Ali, I can t take it anymore. I 
                        never get a break, I m sick of it. 
                        Sick to death of this. He s in 
                        perfect physical health, but his 
                        brain is gone.

                                          ALI
                        You have to get help, mom.

                                          SHELLY
                        That s what everyone says, get 
                        help, get help. But you re not 
                        going to come over here and sit 
                        with him. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    26


                                          ALI
                        I m trying to get my writing 
                        samples together. 
                                (then)
                        Hire someone.

                                          SHELLY
                        I don t have any money. 

                                          ALI
                        Then move.

                                          SHELLY
                        I can t.

On Ali, THINKING.


Ali COUNTS OUT SOME CASH from her purse for Shelly-- 

                                          SHELLY
                        I ll pay you back.

                                          ALI
                        You don t have to.

                                          SHELLY
                        I m worried about you. I wouldn t 
                        be surprised if you re eating a 
                        lot of cheap junk food.

                                          ALI
                        No, I m not, mom I have plenty of 
                        money and I m eating perfectly 
                        normal food.

                                          SHELLY
                        You re just a little--

Shelly reaches out and GRABS a bit of flesh on Ali s tummy. Ali 
SNAPS the roll of cash back.

                                          ALI
                        You DID NOT just do that-- Mom, 
                        I m going to take this money back 
                        RIGHT NOW unless you apologize.

                                          SHELLY
                        Okay, god, I m sorry.


Sun rising outside. Ali stands in the light of her fridge, starved 
for something. 

Finds nothing.

She spots Wallis across the courtyard in her apartment. She walks 
to the window, relieved-- her touchstone is back. 

Wallis, NAKED, sings, LOUD AND PROUD, to no one:

                                          WALLIS
                        Operator
                        could you help me place this call?
                        I can't read the number 
                        that you just gave me



A group of FOLKS sit in a circle in a support group-- men, women, 
old, young. Hard to tell what they all have in common. 

We re CLOSE on Mort s mouth, so we can t see his face:

                                          MORT
                        I have to tell one of them. 

On the EMPATHETIC FACES of his support group friends:

                                          MORT (V.O.)
                        I m thinking Sarah. 

                                            SUPPORT GROUP FRIEND
                        Is she the one who used to be a 
                        lesbian?

                                          MORT (V.O.)
                        Yeah. She s married to a man now. 
                                (then)
                        I think she might be the only one 
                        who really loves me. 

We re BACK, CLOSE ON MORT S MOUTH:

                                          MORT
                        For who I am.


Joshua and Brannon are fucking.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I wanna come inside you.

                                            BRANNON
                        Don t you dare.

                                          JOSHUA
                        I m gonna. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    32


                                            BRANNON
                        I ll kill you if you do.

                                            DEREK (O.S.)
                        Eight. Seven. 


Josh keeps pumping, eyes closed.

                                            DEREK (O.C.)
                        Four. Three. 

It s clear he s GOING FOR IT anyway as he exhales and lets out a 
LOUD, RELIEVING, orgasm. He s free... 

                                          JOSHUA
                        Aaaaaaaah... I love you.


Sarah unlatches the sliding door as Tammy waits.

                                            SARAH
                        It s open.

                                            DEREK (O.C.)
                        Two. One.

We get ahead of them, finding our way to Mort s bed, where an 
array of LADIES PANTIES are spread out on the bed.


We move across the FACES of the people in the support group.

                                            SUPPORT GROUP LEADER
                        I think it s Maura s turn to 
                        share. Maura?

Reveal a WOMAN, MAURA.

Who happens to be Mort.

HER FACE is made up in lipstick and eye shadow. She SMILES at the 
group, relaxed-- at home in the world.  TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    33


                                            MORT/MAURA
                        This has been a fuck of a week.

The end of Jim Croce doing OPERATOR rises... 

                                          JIM CROCE
                                (singing)
                        There's something in my eyes
                        you know it happens every time
                        I think about a love 
                        that I thought would save me 

As we:

                                                                      FADE TO BLACK.

                                        THE END