	
Vincent looks out over the city, sharing his concerns about
this with CATHY...

VINCENT
	... Perhaps I've done him a
	disservice.

CATHY
	By encouraging him to embrace his
	future?

VINCENT
	By assuming it was what he wanted.

CATHY
	Vincent, he's come this far
	because of his desire, because
	you believed in him.

VINCENT
	I always believed Michael would
	want this opportunity.

CATHY
	(tenderly)
	... you dreamed he would have what
	you couldn't have.

Vincent acknowledges this, touched by her understanding...

CATHY
	(continuing)
	It's a little frightening when
	dreams finally come true...

VINCENT
	(moved)
	Yes...
	(a beat)
	We mustn't forget how Michael came
	to us -- the loss he suffered.

CATHY
	His mother's death..?

VINCENT
	(nods)
	... And his father's rejection.

CATHY
	Was he abandoned?

VINCENT
	We only know that when we found
	Michael wandering the streets,
	he begged us not to contact his
	father.  He would only say the
	man didn't want him.

CATHY
	He lost both parents...

VINCENT
	He lost his sense of hope...
	Michael blames not only his father
	but a world that would leave
	a child alone, in grief.

CATHY
	Then Michael must come back to
	that world -- to face those
	disappointments -- to make his
	peace.

VINCENT
	(concerned)
	Yes...

CATHY
	You know I'll do everything to help him.

VINCENT
	He'll need a friend...

CATHY
	Don't worry, Vincent.  Michael
	comes above with a great advantage
	over almost everyone else up here...

He looks at her...

CATHY
	(smiling reassuringly)
	He has your faith in him.

CUT TO:

5-6 OMITTED


Shimmering millions of lights wash over the balcony wall...

15 REVERSE - MICHAEL

can't possibly resist a tiny gasp of wonder, It's
beautiful. He moves slowly to the edge, revealing for
himself and us the expanding view...

16 CATHY

appears at the door behind him. She watches him a beat,
letting him enjoy the view undisturbed...

CATHY
	It's something, isn't it?

MICHAEL
	(despite himself)
	It is...

CATHY
	You must have missed it...
	(off his silence)
	At least a little...

MICHAEL
	(shakes his head against
	the idea)
	There's a lot of ugliness behind
	those lights, too...

CATHY
	(shrugs)
	Maybe... but to me they always
	promised something... hope, I
	guess...

MICHAEL
	(reflecting)
	Vincent says something like that,
	too... but I don't know...

Michael looks away.  She sees this needs to be taken
slowly.  A long beat.

CATHY
	Why don't we take a walk...?

Michael smiles bravely, as a peace offering.

MICHAEL
	Okay.

DISSOLVE TO:


Cathy and Michael stalk away from the restaurant
wordlessly.  After a few paces she starts to shake her head
and a big grin breaks over her face.  He sees this, but he
isn't sure what it means.

CATHY
	I can't believe you did that...

MICHAEL
	I'm sorry if I embarrassed you--

CATHY
	Are you kidding?  That was
	wonderful! I wish I had that much
	nerve...

		MICHAEL
I couldn't help myself...

CATHY
	(smiles)
	... Vincent would have done the
	same thing.

She stops at a hot dog vendor's cart and holds up two
fingers.  As she pays for the dogs another panhandler
appears ahead of then.  They see him and Cathy hands
Michael his hot dog with a look.

CATHY
	Now you hold onto this hot dog,
	Michael.  I'm not buying you three
	dinners tonight...

He smiles at her with deep appreciation, but doesn't laugh.
He's beginning to feel a new and much bigger 
emotion...

DISSOLVE TO:



Cathy and Michael are taking a walk after lunch.

CATHY
	Does the city feel any better to
	you?

MICHAEL
	Yes.,. It does.

CATHY
	(moved)
	I'm glad... Some things just take
	a little time.

MICHAEL
	And a little faith, I guess...

CATHY
	That, always...

MICHAEL
	(beat)
	... I'm moving into the dormitory
	tomorrow.

CATHY
	I know... Another new experience.

MICHAEL
	I still haven't figured out what
	classes I'm taking.

CATHY
	We'll go over the schedule
	tonight.  I can help...

MICHAEL
	Okay...

CATHY
	Don't worry, we'll figure
	everything out...

Cathy takes his arm and they continue on their way...

CUT TO:

27 - 35 OMITTED 


Michael stands on the balcony gazing out at the city.  The
look on his face is that of a man whose world has opened --
a young man riding the crest of a powerful wave of
feeling...

35B   ANGLE - INSIDE

We SEE Cathy enter wearing her coat.  She then steps out
on the terrace... The crisp fall air invigorates them.
She turns -- he smiles...

MICHAEL
	So much energy out there...

CATHY
	  So it's different than you
	  remember it?

MICHAEL
	What's different -- is me...  The
	things that frightened me then,
	are beginning to thrill me now...

CATHY
	Because you're no longer blinded
	by your disappointment.

MICHAEL
	I owe that to you.

CATHY
	Are you thinking about seeing your
	father?

MICHAEL
	(slowly nods)
	... Today I went by the house
	where I used to live.  I don't
	know if he still lives there...
	(drifting off)

CATHY
	How did it feel?

MICHAEL
	(from the heart)
	It brought everything back -- more
	feelings than memories -- feeling
	helpless and alone...  And for
	a minute I didn't think I could
	deal with it -- but I could, and
	I did... And then things started
	to sort of make sense.  I guess
	my father did what he had to do
	-- and so did 1.  Maybe he was
	feeling helpless and alone, too.
	I tried to understand that. I
	even tried to forgive him...
	(looking at her)
	I think I'm finally ready to see
	him again...

She clasps his arm, happy for him...

CATHY
	(touched)
	Good... I brought Chinese.
	C'mon, we can work on your
	schedule.

DISSOLVE TO:


Michael runs, Cathy following half a block behind...


CATHY
	Michael!  Wait!  Please!

Michael runs a few more paces, then stops and buries his
face in his hands.  Cathy catches up and tries to comfort
him, taking his head in her hands...

CATHY
	Michael, try to calm down...  Tell
	me what happened... It's all
	right...

MICHAEL
	It was a lie... I knew it all
	along... I should never have let
	myself hope!

CATHY
	Michael, you have nothing to be
	sorry for.  Whatever happened,
	it's not your fault --

MICHAEL
	(suddenly pulling away)
	You don't understand, Cathy!  It
	is my fault!  I lied! To you,
	to Vincent... to myself!

CATHY
	What are you saying?  He isn't
	your father?

MICHAEL
	He's my father, yes... But my
	mother... she wasn't his wife...

CATHY
	Who--?

MICHAEL
	She was the housekeeper! She
	worked for him!

CATHY
	Oh Michael --

MICHAEL
	What have I done??
	(looking at her; his
	unrequited feelings
	compounding it)
	I'm a fool. . .

CATHY
	Don't ever think that, Michael!
	What you did took courage...

He looks in her eyes, needing love so badly now... 	

MICHAEL
	Cathy... I...
	She takes him in her arms and squeezes him hard, trying
	to make him feel safe...

CATHY
	It's okay... I'm right here...

CUT TO:


Cathy embracing Michael... He pulls his face back and looks
into her eyes, drinking something from them he thirsts for
desperately.  She holds his gaze, wanting to give him
whatever he needs...

Until suddenly he pulls her lips into his, and kisses her
with passion.  Though she doesn't pull away, and it's clear
this is something a small part of her wants, Cathy doesn't
return the passion.  Her arms don't hold him tighter, her
eyes don't close in abandon... But still...

CUT TO:


Cathy, her eyes open in fearful awareness, pulls away from
Michael's lips.  She's afraid of devastating him any
further, but can't allow this to go on...

CATHY
	Michael... I'm sorry...

But Michael is ahead of her -- already shame is welling
within him...

MICHAEL

... What have I done?

His shame beginning to overwhelm him, he backs away from
her...

CATHY
	You've done nothing, Michael...
	Please...

	MICHAEL
	(self-loathing)
	I don't deserve your friendship...
	I don't deserve anything...

He turns and runs.

CATHY
	Michael..!  Wait!  Michael, come
	back..!

But Michael is gone...

CUT TO:


Vincent and Catherine

(DIALOGUE TO FOLLOW: APPROX. I PAGE)


Michael and Tina

(DIALOGUE TO FOLLOW: APPROX. 1/2 PAGE)

FADE OUT:


THE END


