
This is LUKE'S DINER, a small mom and pop place in the middle 
of a two hundred year old town in Connecticut. The building 
used to be a barn in the eighteen-hundreds and the pig-pens 
and troughs are still standing outside except that the pig 
  troughs are now full of flowers instead of slop. It's early 
  morning and the air is crisp. A woman in a long warm coat, 
hat and scarf, carrying the world's largest purse, goes into 
the diner.


  ESTABLISHING SHOT of a beautiful old inn with tall white 
  columns and a wrap around that Mark Twain could've written 
on. Lorelai is with a very harried looking older woman, MRS. 
  LANGWORTHY, who is wearing an expensive fur coat and an even 
more expensive facelift. This is no longer the jeans wearing 
  caffeine junkie we met earlier. Lorelai is now in a chic 
black suit looking calm and completely in control.

                              MRS. LANGWORTHY
                Three hundred is the final count as of 
                yesterday. Now, is the cake ready? 
                Margie's frantic about the cake.

                              LORELAI
                The cake is ready and gorgeous. It's 
                going to be a beautiful wedding. You 
                just have to relax.

                              MRS. LANGWORTHY
                Relax. Yes. Oh God, just let her stay 
                married to this one.



Rory is walking with her best friend LANE KIM. A bright quiet 
Korean girl, Lane has the constant dilemma of having very 
  traditional Korean parents while being an Americanized girl. 
Lane hands Rory her jacket and backpack. She opens the 
  backpack, takes out a "Woodstock '99" tee shirt, and puts it 
on over her pink thermal tee. She takes back her stuff.

                              RORY
                When are you going to let your parents 
                know you listen to the evil rock music? 
                You're an American teenager, for God's 
                sake.

                              LANE
                Rory, if my parents still get upset 
                over the obscene portion size of 
                              (MORE)                              LANE (CONT'D)
                American food, I seriously doubt I'm 
                going to make any inroads with Kid 
                Rock.

They reach the school. Kids mill around the front in a frenzy 
of pre-class activity. A large sign announcing the weekend 
  hayride is draped across the front.

                              LANE
                            (re:sign)
                I have to go to that.

                              RORY
                The hayride? You're kidding.

                              LANE
              My parents set me up with the son of a 
                business associate. He's going to be a 
                doctor.

                              RORY
                How old is he?

                              LANE
                Sixteen.

                              RORY
                So, he's going to be a doctor in a 
                hundred years?

                              LANE
              My parents like to plan ahead.

                              RORY
                God, and you have to go to the hay ride 
                with him?

                              LANE
                And his older brother.

                              RORY
                Oh, now you're kidding.

                              LANE
                Koreans never joke about future 
                doctors. So, I guess you're not going, 
                huh?

                              RORY
                No. I'm still fuzzy on what's fun about 
                sitting in the cold for two hours with 
                a bundle of sticks up your ass.                              LANE
                Well, don't expect me to clear it up 
                for you. 

They turn up the walk and enter the school building.


Rory and Lane walk toward a large house with a sign on front 
lawn that reads "ANTIQUES. THE BEST IN TOWN."                              LANE
                Was it a good color at least?

                              RORY
              It had sparkles in it.


  A charming, tiny old clapboard house, with a huge porch and 
tons of potted plants and flowers all over the front yard, 
sits happily on a hill. All the lights are on and the sounds 
of Keely Smith sing out strong in the night.


                              LORELAI
                          (muttering)
                What do I do, what do I do, what do I 
                do...

                              SOOKIE
                You can have anything I own. My car. 
                Sell my car.

                              LORELAI
                Oh, sweetie...no one wants your car.

                              SOOKIE
                You know, you might want to consider 
                asking...

                              LORELAI
                No.

                              SOOKIE
                But it seems like the only option.

                              LORELAI
                Sookie, there are several chapters from 
                a Stpehen King novel that I would re-
                enact before I'd resort to that option.

                              SOOKIE
                But...

                              LORELAI
                Sookie, please.

                              SOOKIE
                Okay. It's dropped.

Rory comes out of the house wearing the plaid skirt.

                              RORY
                          (indicating the skirt)
                So, what do you think?

                              SOOKIE
                Wow. It makes you look smart.

                              RORY
                Okay, no more wine for you. Mom?

                              LORELAI
                You look like Laura Ingalls Wilder.

                              RORY
                Fine. You can hem it. A little. Only a 
                little.                              LORELAI
                Thank you.

  Lorelai and Sookie follow Rory into the house.


ANGLE ON Lorelai across the street from this house. She's 
  drinking from a coffee container and pacing back and forth. 
She drinks the final swig, and takes a deep breath. CUT TO: 
BLACK SCREEN. A door opens to reveal Lorelai standing there.

                              LORELAI
              Hi Mom.

We open out to find EMILY GILMORE holding the ornate door 
open. Emily is a distinguished looking woman in her early 
  sixties. Her dress is impeccable, her hair is perfect and the 
pearls are real. She looks absolutely astonished to see her 
  daughter.

                              EMILY
                Lorelai. My goodness. This is a 
                surprise. Is it Easter already?

                              LORELAI
                I just got finished with my business 
                class and I thought I'd stop by.

                              EMILY
              To see me?

                              LORELAI
                Yes.

                              EMILY
                Well. Isn't that nice. Come in.

                              LORELAI
                Thanks.

  Lorelai enters and Emily closes the door.


The two women walk in silence. Lorelai is still in shock. We 
hear the clip-clop of horses hooves getting closer. A horse 
drawn wagon comes into frame. The wagon is filled with bails 
of hay, and kids, including a miserable looking Lane flanked 
on both sides by two somber Korean boys. The hayride passes 
  Lorelai and Rory. They walk past the old converted town hall 
that sports a big sign: "MISS PATTY'S SCHOOL OF BALLET, 
  GYMNASTICS, ICE SKATING, CHEERLEADING, BATON TWIRLING, AND 
  MODELING." The front door is open and we see a room full of 
tiny girls in black leotards, pink tights, and green tutu's. 
  Standing just outside the front door is MISS PATTY. A two 
  hundred pound, heavily made-up woman of indeterminable age, 
Miss Patty was formerly a professional dancer who at some 
point decided having a sandwich was more important then 
  working with Bob Fosse. Miss Patty is smoking a cigarette and 
  pounding a cane to help the girls keep time.

                              MISS PATTY
                One two three, one two three it's a 
                waltz ladies. Susie you have to tinkle? 
                Then uncross your legs, darling.

Patty sees Lorelai and Rory walking by.

                              MISS PATTY
                Rory, good. I think I found a job for 
                your male friend.

Rory looks up startled. Lorelai stops in her tracks.

                              LORELAI
                What male friend?

                              MISS PATTY
                They need a stock boy at the super 
                market. I already talked to Taylor 
                Doose about him. You tell him to go by 
                tomorrow.

                              RORY
                          (weakly)
                Okay. Thanks.

                              MISS PATTY
                Cute boy. You have good taste.
                          (back to the little ballerinas)
                Hands in the air, not in the nose!

Rory starts walking faster. She walks right past Lorelai not 
  looking at her.                              LORELAI
                What male friend?

Rory picks up her pace.

                              LORELAI
                Oh, you're going to have to walk a lot 
                faster then that. You're going to have 
              to turn into friggin' FloJo to get away 
                from me.

  Lorelai takes off after her.


The huge ornate door fills the screen. We pull back to find a 
now very dressed up Lorelai and Rory standing there. As usual 
  Lorelai is holding a unusually large container of coffee. The 
  weather's cold but Lorelai still won't ring the bell. They 
stand there a beat. Finally Rory speaks.

                              RORY
                So...do we go in or stand here 
                reenacting the "Little Match Box Girl"?

                              LORELAI
                Okay, look, I know you hate me. I'm the 
                most horrible woman in the world. 
                Message received. But I need you to be 
                civil me, just for dinner. And then on 
                the way home you can pull a Menendez. 
                Deal?

                              RORY
                Fine.

                              LORELAI
                            (mumbling to herself)
                Fine. Everything's fine. That's her 
                favorite word lately.

  Lorelai rings the bell. The door opens. Emily answers, 
  looking even more regal then she did before.

                              EMILY
                Well, you're right on time.

                              LORELAI
                Yeah, no traffic at all.

  Lorelai and Rory enter.

