
In the middle of busy Metropolitans hustling to and from 
work, LOIS and CLARK wait at an outdoor cappuccino bar,
"Daryl's Coffee Cart."

			CLARK
	I love the morning.  Anything's
	possible in the morning.

			LOIS
	I hope so.  Because, as of this
	moment, we don't even have the
	tiniest fragment of something that
	might someday, with a lot of work,
	resemble a story.

			CLARK
	C'mon.  We had a great story
	yesterday.

			LOIS
	You know Perry.  You're only as
	good as today.

The VENDOR hands them cups.

			VENDOR
		(to Lois)
	Short non-fat mocha, decaf, no
	foam, no sugar, no whipped.
		(to Clark)
	Grande latte, full caf, whole milk,
	three sugars.

Lois and Clark take their coffees, move off down the
street.

			LOIS
	Still on that health food kick, I
	see.

			CLARK
	Life's short, Lois.  Order what you
	want.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					2.

CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	Life is long, Clark.  And you are
	what you eat.
		(Checks him out)
	Most of us, anyway.

As they continue to walk, the light begins to fade.  It's getting DARKER and darker.

			CLARK
	What's going on?

			LOIS
	Solar eclipse?

			CLARK
	They always announce them.

Now it's completely DARK.  But it's daytime which means
there were no street lights on.  They hear the sound of a
CAR HORN BLARING.

CLARK'S POV - THE STREET

With the use of his super-vision, in the form of NIGHT 
VISION, Clark scans the street.  He sees a car which has
missed a turn in the sudden darkness, bearing down on them.

			LOIS (V.O.)
	Clark?

BACK TO SCENE

Clark steps out into the street.  He puts out both arms 
STOPPING THE CAR AND DIGGING IN.  The force of the car 
pushes him back.  As DAYLIGHT returns, WE SEE streaks on 
the asphalt where Clark's feet dug in, and smoke coming 
from his shoes.  As Clark completes the save, he flings 
himself backward into a pile of plumbing supplies being 
unloaded, knocking himself on the head in the process.

			LOIS
	Clark!

Lois runs to Clark.  He feigns being dazed, holds his hand 
to the back of his head.  Lois checks him out.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Are you all right?  You're not 
	bleeding.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					3.


CONTINUED:

			CLARK
		(sitting up)
	I think so.  What happened?

			LOIS
	The sun just blacked out.  But why?

			CLARK
	Good question.

			LOIS
	Yeah.  But it's going to be an even
	better story.
		(pulling him up)
	Come on.  This could be our lucky
	day.

Clark looks up at the sun and squints, as we:

				FADE OUT.

                       END OF TEASER

ALL SHOOK UP					4.

                           ACT ONE

FADE IN:



Extra Planetary Research and Development.  The 
Metropolis-based nerve center of the space program.

			DAITCH (V.O.)
	That concludes our presentation on
	the so-called 'Nightfall' asteroid.
	Phones are available for those of
	you who need to file your stories
	immediately.

A door flies open and a pack of unruly reporters bursts
forth in a feeding frenzy, targeting a bank of pay phones.
Lois surveys the situation.  More reporters than phones.
Indicates TV reporter FRANK MADISON, on her heels, to 
Clark.

			LOIS
	Take out Madison behind you.

			CLARK
	Lois, these TV guys all get on the
	air before our afternoon edition
	anyway.

Lois sighs, gives Clark a push which sends him bumping 
into Madison.

			CLARK (Cont'd)
	Sorry.  Sorry, I...

Lois takes advantage of the moment, cuts through the crowd
like a quarterback.  She ends up lifting a receiver off
its hook a nano-second before the competition.  She taps 
out a number as Clark approaches.

			CLARK (Cont'd)
	Was that really necessary?

			LOIS
	Kill or be killed.

			CLARK
	You're talking about war.  This is
	journalism.

			LOIS
	See?  Your problem is you think
	there's a difference.
		(into phone)
	Perry?  Lois.
			(MORE)

				(CONTINUED)

ALL SHOOK UP					5.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS (CONT'D)
	Okay, it was definitely a solar
	eclipse, but get this, it was
	caused by this huge asteroid
	nobody's ever heard of before.  I 
	think there's more here than 
	they're telling us...

Lois continues.  Clark looks around, sees EPRAD Chief
Scientist STEPHEN DAITCH approaching.  Daitch is a Carl
Sagan-type astronomer.

			DAITCH
	Mister Kent?  Might I have a
	moment?

Clark nods, takes a few steps away so that they can talk
privately.

			CLARK
	Is there an update to the briefing?

Daitch shakes his head, but his face is tight, leaving no 
room for idle conversation.  He gets to the point.

			DAITCH
	I understand the Daily Planet has a
	'special' relationship with
	Superman.

			CLARK
		(carefully)
	We've gotten our share of
	exclusives.

			DAITCH
	Can you get a message to him?

			CLARK
	I could try.

			DAITCH
	I need to see him.  Here.  This
	evening.

			CLARK
	What's the message?

Daitch shakes his head again.  He sees Lois getting off 
the phone, turns to Clark.

			DAITCH
	Please.

Daitch takes off.  Lois approaches Clark.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					6.


CONTINUED:  2

			LOIS
	What'd he want?

			CLARK
	He was just saying what a big fan
	he is of our Superman coverage.

			LOIS
		(skeptical)
	Huh.


SUPERMAN is in flight.  This is not a leisurely glide, but 
RAPID TRANSIT.


				CUT TO:



A cluster of military officers, government types and 
scientists, including Daitch, Cosgrove and Zeitlin.  
Behind a rope line are members of the media, observing 
from a distance.

The EPRAD time clock now reads, 83:37:21, and counting 
down...

Superman stands on the fringe of the media group, talking
privately to Lois.

			LOIS
	How are you feeling?

			SUPERMAN
	This will work.

			LOIS
	That's a relief.  Why are you so
	sure?

			SUPERMAN
	Because it has to.

			LOIS
	Power of positive thinking, huh?

			SUPERMAN
	Lois, how are you feeling?

			LOIS
	Scared enough for both of us.

Superman touches his hand to her cheek, looks deeply into 
Lois's eyes.

			SUPERMAN
	I'll be back.  We'll go flying
	together.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					13.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	I hope so.

			SUPERMAN
	Count on it.
		(beat)
	I've got to go.

			LOIS
	Good luck.

Lois impulsively kisses Superman.  He lingers a moment 
longer, walks toward the gathering of officials.  Lois 
looks away.  As Superman approaches the group, several 
technicians hover around Superman, outfitting him with 
equipment.  Zeitlin gestures to a small, 
earpiece/microphone.

			ZEITLIN
	This will be your communications 
	link with ground control.  We'll be 
	able to hear everything you say, 
	and we'll be able to uplink our 
	response through the satellite.

			SUPERMAN
		(into mic)
	Testing.  Testing.

Superman puts his arms in the air so the technicians can 
strap an oxygen tank around him.

			DAITCH
	We're assuming you'll be out there 
	longer than the twenty minutes you 
	say you can hold your breath.  This 
	is a six-hour supply for an average 
	human.

			SUPERMAN
	That'll be fine.  Getting there
	fast won't be a problem.

			ZEITLIN
	Superman, I want to offer you the 
	tactical nuclear option one more 
	time.  You'd simply be acting as 
	our delivery system.

			SUPERMAN
		(shakes head)
	The EPRAD science team's given me a 
	clear indication of the asteroid's 
	structural weak point.
			(MORE)

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP 				14.


CONTINUED:  2

			SUPERMAN (CONT'D)
	If I hit it at maximum speed, it's
	their opinion I'll achieve a 
	50-megaton explosive force.  I 
	think we should try that first and 
	not risk the fallout.

General Zeitlin nods.  He sees a limousine arriving.  He 
stands back, erect, and salutes.

			COSGROVE
	He's here.

WE SEE a silver-haired man getting out, move toward 
Superman.  He is THE PRESIDENT.

			THE PRESIDENT
	Superman, it takes commitment and 
	courage to accept this 
	responsibility.  I know I speak for 
	my fellow Americans, but I also 
	think I speak for the entire world,
	when I say thank you and God bless 
	you.

The President puts out his hand, and Superman shakes it.

			SUPERMAN
	I'll do my best.
		(to everyone)
	I think everybody should stand back
	now.

Superman TAKES OFF.  The crowd stares skyward.



As Superman FLIES ABOVE the Earth's atmosphere.



Superman starts in the FOREGROUND and, as he ACCELERATES 
TOWARD THE ASTEROID, it's clear how he is dwarfed by it.
Smaller and smaller, faster and faster.

			SUPERMAN
	I look like an ant next to this.
	I'm going as fast as I've ever gone
	before.

	  GROUND CONTROL                SUPERMAN
        Impact in five, 	         Here goes, my
        four, three, 	         friends.
        two...

Impact!  The asteroid shatters into pieces.  In the 
cataclysm, we lose sight of Superman.

				CUT TO:


Something resembling a SHOOTING STAR flashes across, 
trailing light and fire.



The streets are filthy, gangs and drugs run amok, and 
walking through this decaying neighborhood is a risk, day 
or night.  The object plummets Earthward, scorching a 
tree, and crashing through a fence in a dark, scary alley.


ALL SHOOK UP					18.



The impact creates a smoking mass of debris.  WE SEE 
Superman, almost naked, his costume nearly completely 
shredded in the cosmic collision.  Superman remains still, 
in a fetal-like position, as we:

				FADE OUT.

		    END OF ACT ONE


ALL SHOOK UP					19.

			 ACT TWO

FADE IN:



Pushing all his worldly belongings in a shopping cart, a 
HOMELESS MAN moves slowly on his path.  He wears a wild 
collection of sunglasses and eyeglasses.  He stops, sees 
something out of the ordinary in the alley.  He trades one 
pair of galsses for the other to get a better look.



As the homeless man approaches Clark/Superman, now 
stirring in the debris, seemingly dazed and confused.

			HOMELESS MAN
	Hey, man, whatcha doin' there?  You
	gotta be freezin'.

The homeless man begins to dig through his shopping cart
belongings.  He produces a shirt and a pair of pants.

			HOMELESS MAN (Cont'd)
	You put these on.  They're clean.
	only worn 'em a couple times.

Clark pulls on the pants, begins to button up the shirt.

			CLARK
	Thanks.

			HOMELESS MAN
	No problem.  Where you from?

			CLARK
	I don't know.

			HOMELESS MAN
	Yeah.  I been around myself.  You
	hungry?

			CLARK
	I think so.  Maybe.

			HOMELESS MAN
	If we get a move on, we can catch
	us some breakfast at the shelter.

			CLARK
	You go ahead...

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					20.


CONTINUED:

			HOMELESS MAN
	Don't put down no shelter, brother.
	You been sleepin' in the altogether
	inside a pile a junk.
		(hands Clark glasses)
	Here.  Put these on.  Make you look
	smarter.

The homeless man strikes off.  Clark puts the glasses on, 
begins to follow.

			HOMELESS MAN (Cont'd)
	This thing in the sky hits, we all 
	gonna be sleepin' rough, way I see it.
		(beat)
	I'm Henry 0. You got a name?

			CLARK
	I... I can't remember.

			HOMELESS MAN
	Been there myself, man.

				CUT TO:


Lois and Clark (in fresh clothes) exit a cab.  As the cab 
pulls back into traffic, Clark tries to stifle a sneeze.
He loses the battle.  Clark's sneeze BLOWS THE CAB 
SIDEWAYS OFF THE ROAD INTO A COLLISION WITH A FIRE 
HYDRANT.  He's unaware he's caused this.  Lois just 
shakes her head.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					26.


CONTINUED:

			LOIS
	One thing you need to re-learn
	right away is that Metro cabbies 
	cannot drive.  Never trust them.

Clark nods, follows along after Lois.

			LOIS (Cont'd)
	Now this news conference we're 
	going to is about Superman and the 
	asteroid I told you about.

			CLARK
	This Superman -- sounds like he
	means a lot to you.

			LOIS
	He means a lot to everybody, Clark.


Daitch, Cosgrove and Zeitlin approach a microphone set up 
on the steps.

			COSGROVE
	We have just completed a briefing 
	with the Federal Emergency 
	Management Team.  This meeting was 
	called to discuss the scientific 
	assessment from EPRAD about 
	yesterday's mission.

			DAITCH
	Superman's impact on the
	'Nightfall' asteroid was
	substantial.  It was not, however,
	decisive.

			LOIS
	Are you telling us there's still
	something out there?

			DAITCH
	A large portion -- approximately 
	three miles across -- remains on an 
	impact course with the Earth.
		(beat)
	About fifty-five hours from now.

			LOIS
	Is that why we haven't heard from 
	Superman?  That he's working on a 
	return mission?

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					27.


CONTINUED:

Daitch looks like a deer caught in the headlights.
Cosgrove steps to the microphone.

			COSGROVE
	We have not yet heard from Superman
	although we expect to soon.

There is an audible GASP from the assembled journalists.  
Cosgrove gestures for order.

			COSGROVE (Cont'd)
	There is no need for panic.  Even 
	without Superman's help, we are 
	confident we can handle this latest 
	challenge with existing resources.
	General?

			ZEITLIN
	We have several delivery systems, 
	notably the Asgard booster, which 
	we are in the process of 
	re-programming.  At the same time, 
	we're currently attaching nuclear 
	payloads which, if we can deliver 
	them, will finish the job Superman 
	started.

			CLARK
	Are you looking for Superman?

				DISSOLVE TO:



Luthor surveys the cityscape as the sun sets.  Asabi 
stands a respectful few feet behind him.

			LUTHOR
	You begin to take it for granted.
	You assume that every day the sun 
	will rise in the east and set in 
	the west.  You assume that every 
	night the moon will be there for 
	your inspiration.  You assume that 
	spring will follow winter.
		(turns back to Asabi)
	I shall use this moment as a 
	constant reminder for the 
	future.  Assume nothing.

			ASABI
	Hope for the best, plan for the
	worst.

			LUTHOR
	That has always been my credo.

Luthor puts an arm around Asabi.

			LUTHOR (Cont'd)
	Asabi, see to it that Miss Lane is 
	'invited' to our little party.  And 
	let's make sure she has all the 
	comforts of home.

				CUT TO:


Perry drives, Jimmy has a flashlight on a map with various
locations marked.  Two people, two conversations.

			PERRY
	You know, I covered Beirut before 
	the Marines showed up in '82, and 
	it was never as bad as this.

			JIMMY
	I got four people.  All claim they
	saw the same thing.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					32.


CONTINUED:

			PERRY
	Bob Kerns and I got caught in a 
	free-fire zone.  Somebody shot our 
	tires out.

			JIMMY
	Chief, slow down...

			PERRY
	We dodged out of there and started
	walking, but that just made us a 
	target.  Well, Kerns was a real 
	charming guy and absolutely 
	fearless, so he just marched into 
	this little restaurant, ordered 
	drinks for the house and that's 
	where we ended up spending the 
	night.

			JIMMY
	Pull over!  If you draw a line 
	between all the sightings, they 
	intersect right here!

Perry pulls the car to a halt.  Jimmy throws the door 
open, goes out to inspect.

			PERRY
	Jimmy!  It's not safe out here.

			JIMMY
	Chief, you've taken strolls in war
	zones!  Give me a chance.

Jimmy points to a large hole in a metal fence.  A graffiti 
tagger has written "The End is Near." Underneath someone 
has written "No Kidding."

			JIMMY (Cont'd)
	Look!  Who do you think could make
	a hole like that?

Perry looks.  Gets out of the car, slams the door shut.



Jimmy and Perry enter.  Jimmy begins to dig through the 
debris.

			PERRY
	What are you looking for?

			JIMMY
	I don't know yet.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					33.


CONTINUED:

Jimmy keeps digging.  Holds up something.

			JIMMY (Cont'd)
	This.  I'm looking for this.

Jimmy holds up a burned, torn, ripped and smudged piece of 
cloth.  As we get a closer look, we realize it's a small 
red and yellow piece of the Superman insignia.

			PERRY
	He made it back.

			JIMMY
	But where is he now?

As Perry and Jimmy stand there in the dark, contemplating 
this, we:

				FADE OUT.
		    END OF ACT TWO



ALL SHOOK UP					34.

			ACT THREE

FADE IN:


People stand in groups, staring at the sky.  A man sells 
bottled water out of the back of a pick-up truck.  A 
street person wears a sandwich board proclaiming, 
"Doomsday: Is Your Conscience Clear?" The worst kind of 
traffic jam.  Over this, the burn-in of the EPRAD 
Estimated Time of Impact.  In this case, that's 33 hours, 
37 minutes and twelve seconds.

PICK UP JONATHAN and MARTHA entering into this, carrying
suitcases.  As they look around bewildered by the scene:

			MARTHA
	My God, Jonathan.

			JONATHAN
	These city folks don't know the 
	first thing about keeping their 
	heads cool in a crisis.

			MARTHA
	Should we try to get a cab?

Her voice is almost drowned out in the cacophony of CAR 
HORNS.

			JONATHAN
	Even if we can get one, it'll take 
	forever.  Let's find a phone and 
	try to call the Planet again.

They move down the street to the corner.  There are a 
couple of pay phones, but the lines for each are long.  No 
way.  Jonathan sighs, demoralized.  Martha picks up a 
suitcase and heads off.

			JONATHAN (Cont'd)
	Where are you going?

			MARTHA
	We're walking to Clark's.  We can
	get there in a couple of hours.

			JONATHAN
	Are you serious?

			MARTHA
	Jonathan, our boy is missing.  Do I
	look serious?

She does.  Jonathan grabs his suitcase.  They move out 
into traffic.  A can driver HONKS at them.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					35.


CONTINUED:

Jonathan yells at him:

			JONATHAN
	Keep your shirt on!

Jonathan and Martha work their way through traffic.



Lois is at a telephone booth.  Finally, someone answers on 
the other end.

			LOIS
		(into phone)
	Clark?  Hi, 'It's Lois.  Listen, uh,
	I was just wondering if you could
	stand some company? ... Your
	parents?  Oh, great for you... No.
	No. I wouldn't want to intrude at
	a, you know, family time...  Oh,
	no. I have a lot to do.  I'll see 
	you tomorrow morning.

Lois slowly hangs up the phone.  Feeling lost, alone and 
afraid, as we:

				CUT TO:



The scene has evolved from edginess to pandemonium to 
this: almost an empty city picture.  A newspaper stand 
features the headline, "SUPERMAN CAME HOME" with the 
sub-headline, "Where Is He Now?"  The by-line reads, "By 
Lois Lane and Jimmy Olsen."  Small clusters of people 
stand on the street  looking into the sky.  A few cars 
drive along.  The countdown clock tells us why.  Estimated 
Time to Impact is now 3:09:35 and counting down...



Clark stands on the roof with Jonathan and Martha who 
watch him expectantly.

			MARTHA
	It must be like riding a bicycle, 
	Clark.  You probably don't forget 
	how to fly, once you've done it.
	Give it a try.

Clark makes a little George Reeves-type jump.  Nothing.

			CLARK
	Do I flap my arms or something?

			MARTHA
	Usually when you fly you do this.

Martha strikes a Dean Cain-type flying pose.

			JONATHAN
	It's just instinct, I think.  You
	just will it to happen.

			CLARK
	But you said I didn't fly until I 
	was eighteen.  So I had to figure 
	out how to do it.  And right now, I 
	can't remember.

			JONATHAN
	Just walk up to the edge, Clark,
	and do it.

Clark walks right up to edge, raises his clenched fists in 
an awkward approximation of his usual flying stance.  He 
stares straight down.


CLARK'S POV - STRAIGHT DOWN

Total vertigo.  The view of an alley way, way below.


BACK TO SCENE

Clark wavers at the edge.  More than a little scared.

			CLARK
	I don't know about this.

			MARTHA
	Honey, it'll all come back to you
	once you get going.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					52.


CONTINUED:

			CLARK
		(unconvinced)
	Okay.

			MARTHA
	You want me to help you?

			CLARK
	Why don't you just give me a count?

			MARTHA
	On three.  One, two...

Martha gives him a push.  Clark tumbles off the ledge.
Rather than achieving flight, he's DROPPING LIKE A LEAD
WEIGHT.  Jonathan and Martha stare downward.



Lois walks along.  As she passes the alleyway, Clark 
crashes, literally behind her but out of sight.  Lois 
stops.  What was that?



Clark appears from inside a pile of boxes and assorted 
junk, dusts himself off.  He looks around to see if he's 
been seen.  As he heads out of the alley, he sees Lois.

			LOIS
	Clark?  What are you doing here?

			CLARK
	I live here.

			LOIS
	Not in the alley, you don't.  Did
	you hear something?

			CLARK
		(covering)
	That was me.  I was looking for...
	clues.

			LOIS
	Here?  Clark, are you feeling okay?

			CLARK
	Me?  Sure.  Any news about
	Superman?

			LOIS
	Not yet.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					53.


CONTINUED:

			CLARK
	What if he's confused like me, and
	he wants to help, but he can't?

			LOIS
	Clark, Superman wants to help and
	he will.

			CLARK
	How can you be so sure?

			LOIS
	I know Superman.

			CLARK
	I want to know him, too.  So I 
	could believe that.  Tell me about 
	him.

			LOIS
	Superman is the kind of man who 
	makes things happen.  Sure, he's 
	great looking and he's good, but 
	what you notice most about him is 
	how you can count on him.  I 
	remember the first time ...

As Lois continues to talk about Superman, her voice trails 
off.  Clark's mind is working hard now and he sees:


FLASH CUTS

Images of Superman and Lois from our past episodes.  
Rescuing her from free-fall.  The first interview.  The 
first kiss.  It's all coming back to him.


BACK TO SCENE

Lois prods Clark.

			LOIS
	Do you remember anything, Clark?

			CLARK
		(slowly)
	Yeah.  I think I do.

			LOIS
	Well, let's get back to the Planet.
	Everybody's going to be in the 
	basement during impact.

				(CONTINUED)


ALL SHOOK UP					54.


CONTINUED:

			CLARK
	Lois, can I meet you there?
		(off her reaction)
	I have something to do first.

			LOIS
	All right, Clark.  But don't take
	long.

			CLARK
	Thanks.

			LOIS
	For what?

			CLARK
	For whatever it is you've done for 
	me that makes me feel as good about 
	you as I do.

			LOIS
	Clark, whether or not this memory
	of yours comes back, I just want
	you to know, I think you're
	terrific.

			CLARK
	Likewise.

			LOIS
	I mean, I love you... like... a
	brother.

Lois smiles at Clark and he smiles back.  She takes off.  
Clark says to himself:

			CLARK
	That part's starting to come back
	to me.

				CUT TO:


The EPRAD countdown is down to 2:42:17 and counting 
down...



As his parents watch, Clark walks purposefully to the edge 
of the roof.  This time when he gets to the ledge, he does 
not look down.  Instead, he looks up.  Way up.  Clark rips 
open his shirt in the classic Superman way.


ALL SHOOK UP					55.


SKY POV - SUPERMAN

As he blasts into the sky.  He's back and he has a job to 
do and time is running out.



Superman APPROACHES THE ASTEROID.  The expression on his 
face is as described by Lois.  A guy you can count on to 
get the job done.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	This is EPRAD Ground Control.  We 
	are fourteen minutes and counting 
	from the impact of the 'Nightfall' 
	asteroid.

Superman LINKS UP WITH THE ASTEROID.  He puts his 
shoulder to work and pushes.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Mission trackers reporting an 
	anomoly.  Switching to back-up 
	computers for corroboration.
		(beat)
	Roger, confirmation.  Asteroid
	velocity is decreasing.

Slowly, the asteroid slows down, then gradually reverses
direction.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	Incredible.  We seem to be ... the 
	asteroid appears to be reversing 
	course.

Finally, Superman manages to PUSH IT BACK TOWARD THE SUN.

			GROUND CONTROL (V.O.)
	We are stopping the countdown clock
	at this time.
		(beat; not bureaucratic)
	It's gotta be Superman!

				CUT TO:



It's Times Square at New Year's Eve here.  People are
spontaneously pouring into the street.  AIR HORNS, kisses 
between strangers, whooping and dancing.


ALL SHOOK UP					56.



Superman FLIES above Metropolis in a victory lap.  It's 
been a good day for the Man of Steel.  He's already saved 
the world and it's still early.


