
From the street, the CORPSE OF A YOUNG MAN is almost hidden - 
by darkness, industrial bins, backstreet litter: crates and 
boxes and bottles. A human being who s been thrown away like 
  garbage.

  A POLICE CARscreams to the kerb, its lightbarcasting the 
filthy walls in flashing blue. Two UNIFORMED OFFICERSemerge - 
STEVE GORMAN and MIKE EPPLEY. Both in their early 30s. 

They approach the lane. Produce torches. Probe the darkness as 
they move forward. 

  Restless torch beams settle on a PALE HAND. A TOUSLED HEAD. A 
pool of BLOOD.

Tension as Gorman s hand goes to his BATON. He and Eppleyedge 
into the darkness, sweeping it with the torches. 

                                    GORMAN
                  Lima Sierra 37 to Control. Confirm: we 
                do have an IC1down. Possible gunshot 
                  wounds, over. 

                                    DESPATCH (V.O.)
                  Received, Lima Sierra 37. Ambulance en 
                  route, corner of NorthlightRoad and 
                  CobdenLane, eta four minutes, over.

Gorman takes his hand from his baton. About to stoop and 
examine the body -

When the  body  turns - raises a GLOCKREVOLVER - SHOOTS GORMAN 
TWICE in the chest. 

LEAPS to his feet - asEppleyTURNS TO RUN- slips. Loses his 
  footing. 

The gunman SHOOTS HIM TWICE IN THE BACK. 

The gunman approaches Eppley sbody. Nudges him with a toe. 

He squats. Inspects Eppley sDUTY BELT. From the RADIO POUCH he 
removes Eppley sHANDHELD TRANSCEIVER. He substitutes it for an 
ALMOST IDENTICAL MODEL. Refastens the Velcro on the radio 
pouch. Listens for a moment to CHATTER on the radio. Then 
unzips his BLOOD-SOAKED JACKET, revealing a HOODIEunderneath. 
Removes the jacket as he fades into the intense darkness of the 
lane.

Leaving two dead officers. Their eyes, their blood, reflecting 
the flashing lightbarof their empty car.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 2.



JOHN LUTHER stands dangerously close to the very edge of the 
  precipice - London glorious in the morning sun, shining like 
the city of God - laid out below him.


Luther standing there. His phone rings. He ignores it.


Mark exits - walks to his CAR, waiting at the kerb with Zoe at 
the wheel. He gets in. Exhales long and hard.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 3.


                                  ZOE
                  I know how hard that was for you. 

                                    MARK
                I m fine.
                          (checkswatch)
                  Although I might work from home today.

                                  ZOE
                        (kisses him)
                  Thank you.

She starts the engine, pulls away.


Reed ascends, slightly breathless. Sees Luther - close to the 
edge. Looking for all the world like a man about to jump.

He ambles over, joins him on the edge.

                                    REED
                  Nice view.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah. Squint a bit, you can see all 
                the kingdoms of the world.

                                    REED
                You might want to start answering your 
                  phone.

                                    LUTHER
                Get a reputation for answering phones, 
                all they do is ring. 

                                    REED
                You spoken to Zoe?

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    REED
                  Then you should know that Mark North 
                  gave you a pass.He s not pressing 
                  charges. 
                        (offLuther s bitter laugh)
                So how about we finish the chat away 
                  from the edge.

                                    LUTHER
                You never do this? Come to a high 
                  place, imagine what it would be like 
                to fall?

                                    REED
                  Fall or jump?          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 4.


                                    LUTHER
                  Same thing. 

                                    REED
                Beg to differ. But no. Mostly I go 
                  home, watch America s Next Top Model. 
                So what s with the, y know-?

                                    LUTHER
                  Thinking.

                                    REED
                  About?

                                    LUTHER
                You ever worry you might be on the 
                  devil s side without knowing it?

                                    REED
                  Nope. 

They look down. Long way. 

                                    REED(cont d)
                Let it go, John.

                                    LUTHER
                  I already let him go -

He whistles - and gestures to conjure Madsen s falling body

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  - just not far enough to do the job 
                  properly. 

                                    REED
                And nobody shed a tear.

                                    LUTHER
                  That doesn t make it right. 

                                    REED
                  Makes it a bit less wrong, though. 

Luther stares down.

                                    REED (cont d)
                You going to jump?

                                    LUTHER
                  Probably not.

                                    REED
                You want me to push you? Thus 
                  restoring balance to the universe?

                                    LUTHER
                Not especially.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 5.


                                    REED
                  Then I m bored of this game.

He turns from the edge. Luther lingers. And Reed wonders - just 
for a moment - if he might actually jump.

Then Luther digs his phone from his pocket, joins him. 

                                    LUTHER
                You headed back to the factory?

                                    REED
                  I ve been on eighteen hours straight - 
                I m going home, mate. You should try 
                it.

                                    LUTHER
                  I might.

His phone beeps. Incoming message. He picks it up, scans it.

ANGLE ON PHONE: DETECTIVE SUPERINTENDENT TELLER. 

                                    LUTHER (cont d)
                Or I might not. 

SCENE 10 OMITTED1010


Luther and Ripleyat the crime scene. Hands always in pockets, 
Luther is agitated, wandering. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  This is Steve Gorman. Over here, this 
                is Mike Eppley.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah.

                                    RIPLEY
                You knew them?

                                    LUTHER
                  Little bit, yeah.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Sorry.

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t be sorry. If you see Gorman and 
                  Eppley, you ll go blind. So see the 
                  scene. Tell me what you see.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Right. So Gorman was shot at close 
                  range - double tap to the chest.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 6.


                                    LUTHER
                  Entry wounds two, three inches apart. 
                  That s good shooting. 

Luther stoops to examine the pool of blood in which the  dead 
man  had lain. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  It s real blood - but it won t be the 
                  shooter s. It ll be a stray cat, a 
                  dog. We ll find its body in one of 
                  these bins. 

Reaches out, almost touches a couple of small BLOOD SPLATTERS. 
The directionality of the splatter-pattern leads towards one of 
the INDUSTRIAL BINS. 

Luther goes to the bin - peers inside - turns away - revolted 
by the stink. Then shines his torch inside. Hmmm.He takes a 
  BIROfrom his pocket, roots around inside the bin - and 
  produces a BLOOD-SOAKED JACKET. 

Shows it to Ripley.Then lowers it into the bin.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  This is an execution.

                                    RIPLEY
                It can t be. There dbe no way for the 
                  shooter to know Gorman and Eppley
                  would attend this particular call-out.

                                    LUTHER
                  I didn t say he was targeting Gorman 
                and Eppley.I said it was an 
                  execution.

                                    RIPLEY
                  I don t understand what that means.

Luther looks down - into the dead eyes of Steve Gorman. No 
answer there. Just the mild surprise of the recently murdered.

                                    LUTHER
                Nor do I.


Luther and Ripley push through the commotion, head to their 
car. They re confronted by CORINNE DAY (34) a PUSHY TV 
  JOURNALIST. Her CAMERAMAN is behind her, camera off. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Morning, Corinne. Excuse me. 

                                    CORINNE
                Any suspects, John? Off the record?

Luther shoves through, pushes on.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 7.


                                      CORINNE(cont d)
                  You ve got my number -

                                    LUTHER
                  Memorised. Six, six, six.

                                    CORINNE
                  Direct line. 

Luther gives her a grin as he and Ripleypush on to the car.


  Establishing a DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT.


PC JENNY HANSON(27) is at the end of what appears to have been 
a slightly confusing conversation with MRMOON, the Housing 
  Officer.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 15.


                                    HANSON
                  Okay. So you didn t call us. You re 
                  sure it wasn t a member of staff?

MrMoon shrugs, shakes his head - baffled. What can he do?

Hanson along the street, on her radio.

                                    HANSON (cont d)
                  False alarm. Prank call. Okay, that s 
                me done - put the kettle on, over. 

She doesn t notice OWEN. Not until he s STEPPED UP into her 
face. 

She smiles, dodges left. Then right. Smiles, wider, about to 
apologise- 

Then her face falls. 

Because Owen has a GLOCKREVOLVER PRESSED TO HER GUTS. 

                                    HANSON(cont d)
                  Please - 

Owen SHOOTS HER. 

Hanson falls. And Owen walks away. Not dawdling. Not hurrying. 
Just walks away.


A strip of LOCAL SHOPS. And the surreal sight of MEMBERS OF THE 
PUBLIC frozen, not knowing what to do...asJENNY HANSONdrags 
herself bleeding along the pavement. She s terrified. In agony. 
  Clutching at her bleeding gut.

                                    HANSON
                Get away! There s a man with a gun! Go 
                on! Move it! Get yourselves somewhere 
                  safe! Emergency services are en route! 
                  I ll be okay - but please, please make 
                  yourselves safe! Please! Make 
                  yourselves safe!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 16.


Hanson finds a low wall. Props herself against it. Breathing 
  heavily. Trying to control her fear. Listening to the DISTANT 
  CACOPHONYof approaching sirens.

                                    HANSON(cont d)
                  Come on, come on, come on.


We follow the EMERGENCY RESPONSE as it ARRIVES - police cars, 
vans, ambulances. PARAMEDICSare stretcheringHanson to an 
ambulance. 

From Ripley s car emerge Luther and Ripley. 

Luther grabs a UNIFORMED OFFICER - DAVID MARDEL.

                                    LUTHER
                  Where was the shooter?

                                  PC MARDEL
                As far as we can establish, he turned 
                the corner into the street, down here. 
                He just walked right up and shot her.

                                    LUTHER
                  Point blank?

                                  PC MARDEL
                In the abdomen. 

Luther turns. Grabs Ripley.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s not right.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Sir? 

                                    LUTHER
                  It s not right. Last night, he fires 
                six perfect shots in the dark. Now, in 
                  daylight, he messes up. Leaves Hanson 
                  alive. It s not right.

He massages his head, trying to think it through. In the chaos. 
Police officers, people, flashing lights...

And he REALISES. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Oh no.

He slowly looks up IN HORROR-


OWEN is aiming the SNIPER S RIFLE at the scene below. He 
    exhales...squeezesthe trigger....        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 17.



Luther WAVES HIS ARMS ABOVE HIS HEAD, frantic. 

                                    LUTHER
                  EVERYBODY GET DOWN!

Nobody seems to hear him. Just another noise, a point of 
  movement in all this agitation.

  A POLICEMAN (1) collapses with astonishing suddenness, a head 
shot. It s so abrupt that Luther is frozen for half a second - 
then his head snaps in the direction of the GUN SHOT RETORT. 

                                    LUTHER (CONT D)(cont d)
                  TAKE COVER! EVERYBODY TAKE COVER! 

As Luther looks on in horror, POLICEMAN (2) falls, shot in the 
CHEST - 

And now PANIC breaks out. The crowd SCATTERS, SCREAMING.

PC DAVID MARDEL is helping to clearing the confused, panicking 
crowd 

                                  PC MARDEL
                  This way - move this way! Come on!

He takes the elbow of a CONFUSED ELDERLY MAN - and then Mardel 
FALLS! Shot in the neck!

LUTHER hurries to Mardel. Rips off his own tie, bundles it up, 
presses it to the gobettingwound on Mardel s neck.

                                    LUTHER
                  You re okay. You re okay. You re okay.

He scans the skyline -

- as an EERIE SILENCEfalls. Punctuated only by POLICE RADIO 
  CHATTER. From relative safety, a few PEOPLE, are filming the 
scene with raised camera phones.

Blood is pumping onto Luther s hands. Mardel s eyes are bright 
with helpless panic. Luther strokes his brow.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re okay. You re okay. You re okay.

Two police officers lay dead. Mardel fatally wounded. The 
  survivors scan the skyline. Wait. 

A long, silent beat.


Owen slips the rifle into a sports bag. Zips it up. Slips away. 

SCENE 30AOMITTED30A30A        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 18.



He goes out onto the roof. 

                                    LUTHER
                  This really isn t the day.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 21.



Reed s car and Ripley scar park outside the vast, looming 
prison. Luther, Reed and Ripleyhead towards it.


Luther and Ripleyare leaving the prison. Luther s phone rings. 
He checks. It s Zoe. He answers.

                                    LUTHER
                You left yet?

SCENE 50 - 51 INCLUSIVE OMITTED


POLICE VEHICLES parked at all angles.

A CO19 TACTICAL SUPPORT TEAM in full ASSAULT GEAR. Overhead, 
the MECHANICAL CLATTER of a helicopter.

  Ripley scar pulls up - Luther and Ripleyrun out - join Teller 
and Reed. All of them in stab-proof vests.

They watch as CO19 STORM THE HOUSE - take down the door with 
  battering rams - enter. Hear their progress on Teller s radio

                                    CO19 (on radio) 
                  Armed police! Lay down your weapons! 
                  Final warning! Lay down your weapons!

Tiny beat of SILENCE. 

From inside the house, A MOBILE PHONE RINGS.

                                    CO19(on radio) (cont d)
                Oh -

And the house GOES UP.

  Everyone ducks - takes cover - as THE BASS ROAR of the 
  explosion rolls over their heads - then they SLOWLY STAND - as 
BURNING DEBRIS rains down.

                                    TELLER
                      (on radio)
                Oh, God - Medics! Get me medics and 
                  bombs disposal, now!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 35.


Luther stands - ash and debris falling all around - his eyes 
fixed on the house - filled with sorrow.  


  Establishing a VAST, DESERTED HOUSING ESTATE.


Luther passes armed guards, enters the station.


Luther passes armed guards, steps onto the street. Very alone. 

Gets into his car.


Luther exits. Waiting for him is a BBCTV NEWS CREW - and 
  Corinne, the journalist.

The CAMERAMAN begins to wire Luther with a clip-on mic. 

                                    LUTHER
                  When will this go out?

                                    CORINNE
                  Lead story, main bulletin. Say, ten 
                  past ten. You re definitely sure about 
                  this, now?

                                    LUTHER
                Oh yeah.

                                    CORINNE
                  Then let s go.

She smiles, turns to the cameraman, who nods: ready.


Luther speeds through London - focused on the task ahead.


Luther walks alone through a run-down estate. 

                                    TELLER (ON RADIO)
                  D.C.I.Luther, this is Control. What s 
                  your status, over?

                                    LUTHER
                      (on radio)
                I m en routeto the Kings Hill Estate, 
                  over.

                                    TELLER (ON RADIO) 
                  Please clarify, over.

                                    LUTHER
                  There s a flat there, belonged to one 
                of Terry Lynch s old oppos. Owen used 
                to go there when he was a kid, listen 
                to them drink and tell war stories. 
                I m betting he paid it a visit - maybe 
                  left something we can use to find him, 
                  over.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 49.


                                    TELLER (ON RADIO)
                  Hold back on that. Do not proceed 
                  unassisted to the Kings Hill Estate. 


Luther turns off the radio. Hangs it on his belt. Walks on -

Into the profound, sombre shadows of that VAST, DESERTED HIGH 
RISE HOUSING ESTATE. 

Pauses at the edge of the last sodium light. He is very scared. 

The ECHO OF HIS FOOTSTEPSfollow him to TOWER BLOCK B. It rears 
over him. Mute, brooding, malevolent.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 51.


22.24

Slowly, his back pressed to the filthy wall, Luther makes his 
way up the stained concrete stairwell. 

Utter silence, but for the scrape of his footfalls, his anxious 
breathing. 

Sounds of LONDON CHAOS are distant, muted. Here, the night 
breeze whistles through desolate concrete passages, deserted 
  walkways, broken windows, barricaded doors.

Luther arrives at the FIRST FLOOR WALKWAY. Waits. Pressed flat 
to the wall. Looking into the DARKNESS. The wind blowing low 
and cold. 

He edges up the stairs. Stops. Holds his breath. 

  COMPLETE SILENCE. 

He strains to listen - pressed flat to the wall. Did he hear 
something? Some TINY MOVEMENTbelow?

No. He moves on up - 


  - reaches the fourth landing. Stops. Listens.He s sweating - 
trying to control his terrified breathing.

  A padlocked steel grilled door blocks the passageway. Luther 
picks the lock and goes through.

Edges down the long, vacant passageway - past kicked-in doors, 
  discarded needles. 

He finds the door he wants - FLAT 154 - his hand goes to it - 
pushes -

- the door swings openwith a LONG CREAK-

Luther peers into darkness. It seems to wait for him.

Then he hears something. 

He turns. 

And there s Owen. Not in the flat. At the far edge of the 
  passageway, near the stairs. Assault rifle raised -

                                    OWEN
                  Luther, is it?

                                    LUTHER
                  John. Yeah.

                                    OWEN
                Why are you here, John?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 52.


                                    LUTHER
                  Because I want you to stop.

                                    OWEN
                You ex-services? Look it.

                                    LUTHER
                  A lot of coppers are - Mike Eppley, 
                the man you killed the other night. He 
                  was. But not me. I was just - I was 
                  around it a long time. 

                                    OWEN
                  Lace your hands on top your head, 
                  John.

Luther laces his hands on top of his head. Owen moves closer - 
the assault rifle aimed between Luther s eyes - 

He stops a few feet away. No way for Luther to move.

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                You got a death wish?

Long beat.

                                    LUTHER
                No. 

  Suddenly Owen STEPS FORWARD - clubs Luther with the gun - kicks 
him - kicks him again -

  - leaves him helpless and gasping on the ground -

                                    OWEN
                  THEN WHAT?! WHATARE YOU DOING?

He grabs Luther s collar, throws him through the door into the 
flat.


Luther waits. His face is bruised and dressed.Alice Morgan 
joins him. Stands at his shoulder.

                                    ALICE
                So - what do you have to say that 
                  can t be said over the phone?

He doesn t turn to her. Just leans on his stick. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That if you don t stay away from Zoe - 
                  I ll kill you, Alice.

                                    ALICE
                And you d do that, would you? 

                                    LUTHER
                If it was the only way to stop you.

                                    ALICE
                Was it the only way to stop Henry 
                  Madsen?

                                    LUTHER
                You need to let it be. You really do.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 58.


                                    ALICE
                  Don t worry - I ve concluded my 
                  investigation. I think I got the right 
                  man. 

Beat.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                  I like her, by the way. Zoe.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know what that means - not 
                  coming from your mouth.

                                    ALICE
                  She s strong. She has dignity. She 
                  loves you a great deal.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, well. Funny way of showing it.

                                    ALICE
                She knows what you did.

He turns to her, shocked.

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you mean? 

                                    ALICE
                  She s always known. It didn t change 
                  anything. It s not why she left. 

He looks at her with something like awe. Close to tears - 
wanting to believe, needing to believe, what she s saying. And 
because of that, he s afraid to.

                                    LUTHER
                She didn t tell me. She never -

                                    ALICE
                You made her watch what it did to you, 
                and never told her why. I think that s 
                why she left, in the end. She couldn t 
                  look at it any more - what you do to 
                  yourself. She felt she d lost you to 
                the dead.

Luther can only stand there, blinking.

                                    LUTHER
                Why are you doing this? I m lost. I 
                  don t understand.

                                    ALICE
                  Because we re friends. I wanted you to 
                  feel better.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 59.


                                    LUTHER
                  We re not friends. I don t know what 
                we are, but we re not friends.

                                    ALICE
                  Whatever else may have happened is in 
                the past. 

                                    LUTHER
                The past isn t dead. It s not even 
                  past.

                                    ALICE
                Are you still frightened of me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes.

                                    ALICE
                  I ve no wish to hurt you. And I 
                  certainly have no wish to hurt Zoe. 
                  She s - admirable.

                                    LUTHER
                  You ll - stay away from her? I need 
                you to stay away from her.

                                    ALICE
                  Absolutely. Brownie s honour.

He questions her with a fierce, frightened eye.

                                    LUTHER
                One coffee. That doesn t make us 
                  friends.

A beat. They turn. Walk away. 

  Together.



                                                                      END OF EPISODE