
Burgess stands at the OPEN BOOT of his car, which has reversed 
almost to the doorway of the house. He has an OVERNIGHT BAG at 
his feet. 

Perfect suburban silence. 

ANGLE INSIDE THE BOOT: KIRSTENlies curled, foetal, helpless. 
Burgess savoursher for a second. Then shuts the boot. 

Looks around. No-one there. He picks up the bag. Heads to the 
house.


CARL parks his car. Takes his LAPTOP BAG from the passenger 
seat. Finds his housekeys.Walks to the house. Opens the door.

A beat of SILENT INCREDULITY. Then a HOWL OF ANGUISH and - 

                                                                              FADE TO:

SCENE 6 OMITTED66


The house is longer quite so ordinary: it s surrounded by 
POLICE VEHICLES, UNIFORMED OFFICERS behind tape. Luther walks 
to the OPEN FRONT DOOR - it s been COVERED with PLASTIC 
  SHEETING that billows in the light wind.

TELLER is waiting. With her is RIPLEY.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 3.


                                    LUTHER
                So why the secrecy? 

                                    TELLER
                  I want your unadulterated impressions. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Unadulterated by what?

                                    TELLER
                  Rumours.
                      (off his bewilderment)
                  Just go in.

Luther snaps on PVC GLOVES. Tucks his tie into his shirt. 
Ripley does the same. They step through the PLASTIC CURTAIN-


Luther walks to his car, on the phone.

                                    LUTHER
                Are you insane? 

SCENE 33 INCORPORATED INTO SCENE 323333

SCENE 34 OMITTED3434


BAPHUMETis a CHIC-LOOKING ISLINGTON SHOP that resembles a 
SMALL GALLERY. Luther enters.


Burgess walks away from the shop. Owning the streets. A lion 
passing through cattle.

Behind him, Ripley peels away. Tails Burgess. 

On Burgess as he GRINS. He knows he s being followed.


Burgess enters a LARGE, MODERN OFFICE. 

A few steps behind him, Ripley follows. And sees -

A BRASS PLAQUE: CELEBRITY ALLIANCE MANAGEMENT.

Ripley digs out his phone. Dials.

                                    RIPLEY
                  I think we may have a complication.


Luther and Ripley walk. Tension and anxiety between them.

Ripley points along the bleak urban marina - past dilapidated, 
MOORED NARROWBOATS-        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 39.


                                    RIPLEY
                  There she is.

He s right. There, at the end, is BURGESS S NARROWBOAT.

Seeing it, the air between them intensifies. They look 
guardedly, left and right. No-one around.

They head to the boat - moving faster now - slipping on LATEX 
  GLOVESas they go.

Luther steps onto the boat. Tucks his tie into his shirt.

The door is secured with a HEAVY PADLOCK. He squats, takes his 
  LOCKPICKS from his pocket. 

                                    LUTHER
                If you re going to back out, back out 
                  now.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Just hurry.

Ripley just scouts out with GROWING ANXIETYas Luther PICKS THE 
LOCK. Which finally OPENS. Gently - Luther opens the door. 


Ripley strides away, on the phone. Luther runs up behind him, 
grabs Ripley s phone hand.

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Don t what?

                                    LUTHER
                  Just don t.

                                    RIPLEY
                  What are you saying?

                                    LUTHER
                We weren t here. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  That s not what we said - we said, if 
                she was here, we d call it in. Claim 
                  exigent circumstances under Section 
                17, reasonable suspicion of threat to 
                  life and limb.

                                    LUTHER
                If she was alive.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Boss, this is a crime scene - a murder 
                  scene. You can t walk away from that, 
                  pretend you never saw it.

                                    LUTHER
                You want to take down the man who did 
                  this?

                                    RIPLEY
                  More than anything I ever wanted in my 
                  life. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Then trust me. Because there ll be no 
                  forensics here. Nothing we can use. 
                  He ll wriggle out of this. Again. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Boss...John...you're a police officer. 
                And this, this is a murdered woman. 
                Her family are waiting;         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 42.


                  they re going out of their minds. You 
                  can t just lock her back up and walk 
                  away. This is about the law - not 
                  retribution.

                                    LUTHER
                I m not asking for your approval. Just 
                  your silence.

Long beat.

                                    RIPLEY
                  I won t volunteer any information - 
                but I can t lie for you, either. What 
                  you re doing is wrong.

                                    LUTHER
                  I know.

                                    RIPLEY
                So why do it?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because it s right.

Luther watches, in some pain, as Ripley turns in disgust and 
hurt and sorrow and walks away, ripping off his gloves. 

He dumps them in a WASTE PAPER BINas he passes. Then he thinks 
again. Goes back to the bin. Retrieves the gloves. Pockets 
them. Walks away.

    Luther slowlyproduces his phone.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Ian?

SCENE 57 OMITTED5757

SCENE 58 OMITTED5858


Burgess exits. He s wearing sunglasses, an attempt at disguise. 
He spots a vibrant middle class woman (late 20 s/ 30 s) across 
the street. He watches her.


Burgess heads down the street.

ACROSS THE ROAD: Reed is watching. He turns away, phone to his 
ear.

                                    REED
                  He s coming your way. 


Luther on the phone.

                                    LUTHER
                Got it. Ta.


Reed pockets the phone. Gets his car keys.


Luther hangs up. Pockets his phone. Walks on.

  INTERCUT Burgess and Luther - 

As Luther walks, he puts on a BASEBALL CAP. Pulls it low. Turns 
up his COLLAR. Snaps on LATEX GLOVES. 

What s he planning?

Burgess and Luther enter BOUNDARY PASSAGE from OPPOSITE ENDS- 


Burgess frowns at the big man heading towards him - hunched up - 
using the brim of the ball cap to hide his face -

Burgess recogniseshim. As they converge, Burgess smiles - 
about to say - lovely afternoon, officer. Gets the blood up. 

- when LUTHER PUNCHES HIM in the face.

Burgess falls - stunned - bleeding. 

Luther stoops, heel to haunch. Two men making HATEFUL EYE 
CONTACT - 

- as Luther reaches out - PINCHES BURGESS S BLOODY NOSE BETWEEN 
THUMB AND FOREFINGER.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 44.


Glares at Burgess with TERRIBLE HATE. Then strides away.

Burgess stands, stumbles, follows Luther to the mouth of the 
alley. And WATCHES- 

SCENES 62 - 64 OMITTED


As Luther carefully removes the BLOODY GLOVES - places them in 
  a PLASTIC EVIDENCE BAG- then gets into REED S WAITING CAR - 
AND IS DRIVEN AWAY.


Luther and Reed head to the car- only to see SCHENK LEANING ON 
BONNET, arms crossed. 

                                    SCHENK
                Ah. Detective Chief Inspector Luther. 
                You pass like night, from land to 
                  land.

                                    LUTHER
                  I do. I really do. How did you find 
                me?

                                    SCHENK
                  I didn t. I found Detective Chief 
                  Inspector Reed. 
                        (toReed)
                The transponder - in your car. 

Luther and Reed glance at one another. Very nervously.

                                    LUTHER
                  Ian, you might want to take this?

It s the BLOODY GLOVE, all bundled up and unrecognisable, in 
the evidence bag. Reed takes it quickly, shoves it in a pocket. 

Under Schenk s curious gaze.

Reed faces Schenk, as if innocently expecting a question. It 
doesn t come. Instead:        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 47.


                                    SCHENK
                  Detective Chief Superintendent Teller 
                  asked me to request your immediate 
                  return to the factory. 

                                    REED
                  Will do, Sir.

Reed and Luther s eyes meet. A tiny nod - I ll be okay. Then 
Reed gets back into his car. Drives away.

                                    SCHENK
                  There s a coffee shop. Not far from 
                  here. Shall we?

Luther nods. What can he do? He s caught. They walk.


On the phone is - IAN REED! 

He s pacing in the empty locker room. Anxious. Keeping a 
  constant eye on the door.

                                    REED
                So how s it going, Lucien?

  INTERCUT REED and BURGESS

                                    BURGESS
                I m sorry - who exactly are you?

                                    REED
                  They ve planted evidence at the crime 
                  scene, mate. They re framing you.

Burgess touches his bloody nose. Blood on his fingertips.

                                    BURGESS
                  There is no crime scene. They don t 
                  have a crime scene.

                                    REED
                  Then you ve got nothing to be so 
                  jittery about.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 48.


                                    BURGESS
                  They tried to frame me before. It 
                  didn t work then and it won t work 
                  now. 

                                    REED
                You think? I ll be off then.

Moves the phone away, as if about to hang up. 

Burgess is looking at the Polaroids. Chantelle s face.

A beat.

                                    BURGESS
                  Wait!

Reed replaces the phone at his ear.

                                    REED
                  I can make this go away. Two hundred 
                  thousand. Cash. I know you ve got it.   

                                    BURGESS
                  I can't raise that in time. Not cash.

                                    REED
                  Well, see - I think you can. My mate, 
                the big bloke who smacked you, he s 
                  waiting on warrants as we speak. The 
                  area s clear of surveillance until 
                  then; it has to be, to make his story 
                  work. That gives me a window of less 
                  than an hour to make this work for 
                  you. If you don t want to pay for it, 
                  that s your call. I can respect that. 

                                    BURGESS
                  I can get you a hundred and twenty-
                  five. 

                                    REED
                  I suppose it ll have to do.

                                    BURGESS
                  Where do we meet?

                                    REED
                  Finsbury Park Station. Platform two, 
                  Northbound. Half an hour.

Reed hangs up. Exhales. Scarcely able to believe what he s just 
done. 

He takes a few breaths. Calms himself. Then REMOVES THE SIM 
CARD from the phone. Crunches it under his heel. Picks up 
what s left, drops it in the bin. Exits.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 49.



Luther and Schenk sit outside by the water s edge. Canary Wharf 
in the background. Luther with coffee, Schenk with herbal tea. 
Some way into an intense, almost conspiratorial conversation.

                                    LUTHER
                Do you seriously think I d do this? 
                Pay a gang of streetcorner thugs to 
                  beat someone up? 

                                    SCHENK
                No. No, I can t imagine that you 
                  would.  

                                    LUTHER
                So why are we here, wasting my time 
                and yours?

                                    SCHENK
                The truth of what I saw today: you 
                  command great affection and loyalty, 
                  which is to be admired. But you re 
                  evasive, too - and not altogether 
                  truthful. Given this mendacity, given 
                  your history with the victim: you re 
                  going to lose your job - unless you 
                can prove someone else did this to 
                  Mark North, and why.

Schenk watches Luther with a look we ve seen before - in 
  Luther s eyes. Knowing that Luther is trapped.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, I don t know who did it - and I 
                  don t know why anyone would. Except 
                me. 

Schenk, stirring herbal tea - round and round, round and round. 
As Luther glances in AGONY at his watch. He s agitated, 
  restless. He seriously needs to get away. 

                                    SCHENK
                I m sorry, is there somewhere you need 
                to be?

                                    LUTHER
                No. 

                                    SCHENK
                  Good. 


Schenk and Luther. Luther s on edge, desperate to get away.

                                    SCHENK
                  Look. I m not building a legal case 
                  here, John. This is about codes of 
                  conduct, and my standard of proof is 
                  much lower than yours. If you re in 
                  breach of that code in any way, we let 
                you go. Quietly, and without fuss. 

                                    LUTHER
                And you ll recommend that? 

                                    SCHENK
                  It s not what I want. But my 
                  recommendation will be that you re 
                  suspended, immediately and 
                  indefinitely. And that you re 
                  prosecuted to the full extent of the 
                  law.

                                    LUTHER
                  Meanwhile, what about Kirsten Ross? 

                                    SCHENK
                  Many fine officers are working the 
                  case.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 52.


                For what it s worth, I m sorry it has 
                to end like this for you. But there s 
                no place in the service for dirty 
                  coppers. No matter how well-
                  intentioned. 

Schenk is interrupted by HIS PHONE RINGING. He answers.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                  Schenk.

As he listens, he turns his gaze to Luther.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                  When?...All right...yes...yes, I will. 
                I m with him now. Thank you, Rose. Yes 
                  I will.

He hangs up. Sips herbal tea.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                  Mark North put in a call to Detective 
                  Chief Superintendent Teller. Mr North 
                no longer seems to believe the street 
                  robbers used his name, or indeed 
                  yours. Witness memory; it s a funny 
                old thing. He s withdrawn the 
                  allegation.

                                    LUTHER
                So - what now?

                                    SCHENK
                You return to your case without 
                  prejudice.

Luther can t quite believe it. He s desperate to leap from the 
chair, to be gone. Schenk keeps him pinned like a butterfly.

                                    SCHENK(cont d)
                  I didn t want to come for you, John. 
                But they sent me to do a job. If they 
                  send me again, I ll come again. And I 
                  will take you down...even if it means 
                  I won t be able to look myself in the 
                eye afterwards. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, I know that feeling.

                                    SCHENK
                So. Don t do anything that will make 
                  them send me. Coffee s on me

A beat. Then Luther stands - hurries away. 

Schenk watches. Hmmm.As Luther breaks into a run -         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 53.


SCENE 74 OMITTED7474


Burgess walks the marina. He s wearing a BASEBALL CAP and a new 
pair of SUNGLASSES. (Luther broke the last pair). He s got the 
  OVERNIGHT BAG with him. He sets it down to pull on LATEX GLOVES
- then boards the boat - opens the padlock.

Sniffs the air, like a creature on the hunt. Then enters.

I/E. BURGESS S NARROWBOAT - DAY 9 - 14.567676

He enters. Creak of wood, gentle lapping of the greasy Thames. 
He slips on a pair of BOOTEES. Then moves through semi-
  darkness. 


Luther reaches into his pocket. Passes Alice a HARD COPY CCTV 
IMAGE. It shows ALICE MEETING WITH THE GIRL WHO SENT THE HAPPY 
  SLAPPING VIDEO.

                                    ALICE
                So what s this? Blackmail now?

                                    LUTHER
                No. It s just - this thing, this weird 
                  thing between me and you. It has to 
                  end.

                                    ALICE
                  Why?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because it s not right. It started 
                  because I was scared of you; I 
                  thought, being your friend, I could 
                  control you. But I can t control you, 
                  Alice. And I m still scared of you.

                                    ALICE
                I m scared of you, too. You want to 
                  send me to prison.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 3Page 57.


                                    LUTHER
                  What you did to Mark nearly cost me.

                                    ALICE
                  I wouldn t have let it.

                                    LUTHER
                  I know you think that. And I think, in 
                  your own way, I honestly think your 
                  intentions are good. But hurting Mark 
                  won't bring Zoe back to me. It s not 
                how people work; it s not how they 
                  think. 

She smiles at this with an angelic kind of pity. Then she 
stands. Returns the photographs to his hand. 

                                    ALICE
                  I ll see you soon.

                                    LUTHER
                No you won t. 

But she just walks away. 

