
A BELGRAVIA MANSION. At the kerb - a LARGE VAN marked 
COOPERVILLE INTERNATIONAL FINE ART MOVERS. 

TWO REMOVAL MEN in COOPERVILLE POLO-SHIRTS are nailing a 
PAINTING into a CRATE.  

Job done, they hoist it and carry it to the van.

The owner of this house, JAMES CARRODUS watches the last 
painting leave from his balcony. Satisfied. Job done.

He turns and enters the house.

OMITTED: SCENES 2 & 3 INC.2/32/3


A smaller MOVING VAN pulls up, same livery as the COOPERVILLE 
van. THREE REMOVAL STAFF ALSO in COOPERVILLE POLO-SHIRTS, 
sunglasses and baseball hats. Two men, one woman. 

They re not removal men. It s DANIEL SUGARMAN, EVANGELINE NIXON 
and TOM MEYER...and they re very bad people. 


Carrodus in a panic as he hurries away.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 5.


                                  CARRODUS
                Bill, where the hell are you? You re 
                not at the office, you re not -

INTERCUT WININGHAM and CARRODUS

                                  WININGHAM
                What s the matter?

                                  CARRODUS
                You know policemen -  

Winingham pauses.

                                  CARRODUS (cont d)
                For God s sake Bill, I need the name 
                of a copper I can trust, and I need it 
                NOW - 


ESTABLISHING a MODERN BUILDING. A sign advertises SHORT LET - 
EXECUTIVE APARTMENTS. Reed walks in to the building.


Sugarman checks his watch. Dials a number from memory on his 
unique looking Pay-As-You-Go mobile.


Luther approaches, still a bit breathless. Ripley is shoving 
Evangeline into the back of the car. 

Her phone rings. Ripley grabs it, tosses it to Luther. Who 
catches it, answers.

                                  LUTHER
                      (rapidly)
                I don t know who you are. I don t know 
                where you are. You re still in control 
                here. So don t hang up.


                                  SUGARMAN
                 Prolong the situation. Ensure the 
                safety of the hostages. Keep things 
                calm. Foster relationships between 
                  negotiator and hostage-taker. 

INTERCUT LUTHER AND SUGARMAN

                                  LUTHER
                I know you re no amateur. I m not 
                playing you, here. Yeah, we ll trace 
                this call, of course we will.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 20.

                                  LUTHER (cont'd)
                But it ll take a few minutes to set 
                that in motion. By the time we ve done 
                it, you ll be long gone.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You ve got one minute.

                                  LUTHER
                Carrodus kept the ransom.

                                  SUGARMAN
                What?

                                  LUTHER
                Last minute calculation. The way he 
                saw it, Jessica was going to die - 
                even if he gave you the money. So why 
                give you the money?

                                  SUGARMAN
                So why involve you?

                                  LUTHER
                He wanted all the angles. He knew we d 
                know how to prolong the game. 

                                  SUGARMAN
                What did you advise him?

                                  LUTHER
                To give you half the ransom up front, 
                keep the other half as collateral 
                against Jessica s release. He seemed 
                to go for it.

                                  SUGARMAN
                So we both lost him. 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t care about him. So listen. We 
                want Jessica. That s all we want.

                                  SUGARMAN
                No it s not. You want to arrest me and 
                send me to prison.

                                  LUTHER
                Of course I want that. But it s not an 
                outcome I can expect, not from this 
                set of circumstances. So I m playing 
                for Option B. I want Jessica back 
                alive.

                                  SUGARMAN
                What s your name?

                                  LUTHER
                John.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 21.


                                  SUGARMAN
                Rank?

                                  LUTHER
                DCI. 

                                  SUGARMAN
                If you d ve lied to me, John, I d ve 
                known it. And I d have cut her throat 
                and buried her and you d never know 
                where. 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t doubt it. And you shouldn t 
                doubt that I ll get you what you want. 
                Give me three hours.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Ha!

                                  LUTHER
                I need time. I m not a magician.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Give me a number. I ll call you on it. 
                In one hour.

                                  LUTHER
                I ll need proof of life.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You won t get it. This is a game of 
                trust. Can you manage that?

Beat.

                                  LUTHER
                Okay, take this number.

WE CUT TO SUGARMAN, who finishes writing the number. Ends the 
call, removes the sim card and tosses it.


Zoe walks, keeps herself composed. Until she finds a LOW WALL. 
She sits, digs out her leather tobacco pouch. Tries to roll one 
of the cigarettes with shaking hands. Before she can manage 
that, her face crumples. She begins to sob.


Sugarman enters the phone box.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Do you have it?

INTERCUT LUTHER AND SUGARMAN

                                  LUTHER
                Most of it.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Most of it isn t what we agreed, John. 
                Deal s off.

                                  LUTHER
                Wait! Wait! What about Jessica?

                                  SUGARMAN
                You have to get this in your head. I 
                don t care about her.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 28.

                                  SUGARMAN (cont'd)
                If I no longer believe her to be of 
                  sufficient value to you, then her 
                value to me diminishes sharply. Right 
                now, it seems to me she s verging on 
                  worthless.

                                  LUTHER
                But we ve got Evangeline. What s her 
                value?

                                  SUGARMAN
                To you, Evie s an asset of very 
                limited benefit. I know she s safe. I 
                know you can t hurt her. I know she s 
                strong and won t say a damn word about 
                me. So keep her. She s not in play, 
                here. She s just a captured piece. 

                                  LUTHER
                So what do we do?

                                  SUGARMAN
                Bring me the money. Last chance.

                                  LUTHER
                Okay - I can raise three, maybe four 
                million. But it s going to take time.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You have one more hour. Final offer. 
                Plus, here s a revised deal, you give 
                me one hundred per cent of what I 
                want, you get back one hundred per 
                cent of Jessica. Give me eighty 
                percent of what I want, you get eighty 
                per cent of Jessica. And so on. Take 
                more than an hour, you never get to 
                find out how she died or where I 
                dumped her.

Sugarman hangs up. 

Luther looks to Benny and Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                How long?

They are already EDITING the SOUND FILE. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Two, three minutes. 

                                  LUTHER
                Make it two. 

Ripley nods - don t distract me. 

SCENES 41 - 43 OMITTED        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 29.



... and out into the sunlight - limp to Meyer s car. His PHONE 
IS RINGING. He ignores it, supporting Jessica.

They reach the car! His hands fumble with the keys. He nearly 
DROPS them. Opens the door. Helps Jessica into the BACK SEAT, 
urges her to lie down. Then gets in. 

I/E. MEYER S CAR, FARMILOES - DAY 14 - 11.505252

Meyer starts the engine - stalls it. Curses. Gets it started 
again. Pulls away. Heading for the exit and beyond it - the 
road - and safety! 

                                  MEYER
                Almost there. Almost there. Almost 
                there.

He comes closer. Closer. Closer... 

Too late! 

SUGARMAN S CAR TURNS IN. 

Both cars STOP. Face each other. Meyer s eyes meet Sugarman s. 
He sees the dead light in them. Knows there s no talking his 
way out of this one.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 32.


Meyer throws the car into reverse - backs it up - towards the 
SAFEHOUSE -


Alice is walking along. Her phone rings. She checks the caller 
ID and her face clouds. She answers the call. Listens and then 
a hint of a smile.

                                  ALICE
                Ok.

She ends the call and walks on.

SCENE 57 OMITTED5757        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 35.



In the shadow of the HYPER-MODERNIST BARBICAN, ALICE approaches 
an ANCIENT CHURCH. She is looking forward to seeing Luther but 
hesitates in the church s force field. Then enters.


PATRICK HOLGUIN, PASSPORT FORGER is waiting in his car, 
nervously. John Luther rounds the corner and comes up to the 
driver s window. He taps on the glass, the window goes down. 

                                  LUTHER
                Patrick, yeah?

Holguin nods.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                You can do me a passport? A decent 
                one?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Best you ll get.

                                  LUTHER
                What countries?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Depends what you want, really. New 
                  Zealand s always good. 

                                  LUTHER
                Good, good. I quite fancy that. It ll 
                be summer over there, won t it? All 
                lovely and green?

                                    HOLGUIN
                  Whatever, yeah. Most probably.

Suddenly, Luther grabs him and drags him out of the car window 
then pushes him up against the car. 

Shows him EVANGELINE S PASSPORT - and a MUGSHOT OF SUGARMAN.

                                    HOLGUIN (cont d)
                Oh, not again.

                                  LUTHER
                Too right, again. Now I don t have 
                much time so I m not going to drag 
                this out. How many fingers do I have 
                to break before - ?

                                    HOLGUIN
                He s staying at The Renaissance. Big 
                hotel.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 41.


                                  LUTHER
                How d you know that?

                                    HOLGUIN
                He wanted a total of nine passports 
                for three people.

                                  LUTHER
                So?

                                    HOLGUIN
                So nobody buys in volume like that 
                except -

                                  LUTHER
                Who?

                                    HOLGUIN
                  Terrorists and whatever. You get a lot 
                of aircrews at the Renaissance and I 
                  thought...well, I don t want anything 
                to do with any of that, thank you very 
                much.

                                  LUTHER
                So what?

                                    HOLGUIN
                So I followed him.  

                                  LUTHER
                You were going to let him pay you for 
                the passports, then grass him up?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Too right. I ve got to live in this 
                city, too. I ve got family. 

Luther laughs, releases him. Presses a FIFTY POUND NOTE into 
his fist.

                                  LUTHER
                Not even forgers are honest any more.

He walks away. Hesitates. Wait a minute. 

Turns.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                What did you mean,  Not again ?

                                    HOLGUIN
                A mate of yours was round my place, 
                twenty minutes ago. Looking for the 
                same bloke.
                      (shows him the  50)
                He gave me three of these.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 42.


Beat.

                                  LUTHER
                What mate?


Luther walks to his car, dialling.


Reed is standing on waste land. His phone rings. As he answers, 
we pull back to see his CAR - the OPEN BOOT - and WININGHAM'S 
BODY, blanket-wrapped. 

                                  REED
                What s up, John?

INTERCUT REED AND LUTHER

                                  LUTHER
                Don t do it.

                                  REED
                      (startled)
                Don t do what?

                                  LUTHER
                I know what you re about to do. 

                                  REED
                      (glancing at the body)
                And what am I about to do?

                                  LUTHER
                I saw your face at the crime scene. I 
                know it did something to you. I know 
                how that feels. But if you hurt 
                  Sugarman, you ll go down for it. It ll 
                finish you.

                                  REED
                Who says I m going to hurt Sugarman?

                                  LUTHER
                I spoke to the passport forger. I know 
                you re looking for him.

Okay. Okay okay okay. Reed collects his thoughts. Staring at 
the body in his boot.

                                  REED
                So?

                                  LUTHER
                So, you want two minutes alone with 
                him, fine. Break his legs. But let me 
                be there to tell you when to stop.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 43.


Reed, looking at Winingham's body. Weighing up his options.

                                  REED
                All right. Let s meet. The fountain.

                                  LUTHER
                I can be there at three o clock. 

                                  REED
                Just you. No Ripley, no Teller. Just 
                me and you.

                                  LUTHER
                No Ripley, no Teller. Just me and you. 
                Three o clock.

STILL INTERCUTTING -

As Reed hangs up, walks to his car. Sits behind the wheel. 
Thinking.

And Luther gets in to his car. Sits behind the wheel. Thinking.

Reed pulls a 9MM PISTOL from his pocket. Checks the breach. 
Exhales. Reaches a decision. Starts the engine. Pulls away.

Luther too starts the engine. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Fountain my arse.

Pulls away.


Establishing shot of the Renaissance Hotel in to which Luther s 
car pulls up. He gets out and goes into the hotel.


Reed s car pulls up. Reed gets out. Takes a big coat from the 
boot of his car: different clothes, different look. He 
recognises Luther s car.

                                  REED
                Oh, you lying bastard, John. You lying 
                bastard.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 44.


He stands there for a moment, undecided. Grimacing, massaging 
the back of his head. Then COMMITS.


Luther walks away. Heads to his car. Dialling.


Reed sits on a park bench. He drains the last of a half pint of 
vodka. Runs his fingers through his hair. 

His phone is ringing. He ignores it.

He sits back. Takes out the gun. Puts it into his mouth.

Looks at the sky. Finger on the trigger. Closes his eyes.

Can t do it.

He takes the gun away. 

                                  REED
                I m sorry. I m sorry. I m sorry. I m 
                sorry. I m sorry...

His phones rings off. Then rings again.

E/I. THE RENAISSANCE, LUTHER S CAR - NIGHT 14 - 17.358282

Luther in the car.

                                  LUTHER
                PICK UP THE PHONE! PICK UP THE PHONE! 

No answer. He hangs up. Slams the steering wheel with the heel 
of his hand. His frustrated, helpless rage.


Luther is drinking a coffee in an empty cafe. In despair. A 
moment of hope when his phone rings and he sees that it s -

                                  LUTHER
                Zoe?


Luther can hear something in her voice.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. Yeah, I can hear you. What s up?

INTERCUT LUTHER with ZOE AND REED

                                  ZOE
                Ian Reed is here. He s got a gun -

And PANDEMONIUM ERUPTS. Reed sprints forward, grabs the phone.

                                  REED
                NO!! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Luther hears the SUDDEN CHAOS.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 58.


                                  LUTHER
                Zoe? Zoe are you there?

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed wrenches the phone from Zoe s wrist. She cries out, falls. 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Luther hears her scream.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Zoe?!

And he s out the door, running. Battling the shoppers on Oxford 
Street as he tries to push through - 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Zoe spins away from Reed. Reaches for the KITCHEN DRAWER.

                                  REED 
                Zoe! Don t! Don t do that!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Ian, what are you doing? Leave her 
                ALONE! LEAVE HER ALONE!

                                                                              CUT TO:

Zoe s mobile lies on the kitchen floor. Luther s voice is tiny, 
lost in the midst of this chaos.

Zoe backs away from Reed, holding a kitchen knife. Reed 
advances with the gun. 

                                  REED
                Put it down. Put it down.

                                  ZOE
                HELP! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER 
                Ian, please. Stop! Leave her alone! 
                I m begging you. I m begging you. 
                Please!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  ZOE
                Call the police! Someone call the 
                police!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 59.


                                  REED
                SHUT UP! SHUT UP! 

                                  ZOE
                FOR GOD S SAKE, Ian! JUST GO AWAY! 
                JUST GET OUT OF MY HOUSE!

In the moment of shocked silence that follows -

Reed hear s LUTHER S VOICE on Zoe s dropped mobile phone.

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Ian, this isn t you. This is NOT YOU. 
                Take a STEP BACK. This is NOT YOU! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed is distracted. Just for a moment. Zoe sees her chance. 

Makes a move -

Shocked, Reed sees Zoe LURCH FORWARD with a knife in her hand. 
Making for the door? Attacking?

He backs away, yelling - pulls the TRIGGER. 

And we SLOW. 

                                                            AND FADE TO SILENCE:

As ZOE FALLS. 

And REED BELLOWS HIS DESPAIR. 

And LUTHER CUPS HIS HANDS TO HIS MOUTH IN HELPLESS HORROR.

                                                                        AND FADE TO:

A long moment of PURE WHITE SILENCE. THEN -

                                                                      SMASH CUT TO:

PANDEMONIUM. Luther running for his car, yelling into the 
phone.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Babe? Babe, are you there? Zoe, are 
                you there? Hold on! Hold on! Oh, God, 
                hold on.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed lifts the phone.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 60.


                                  REED
                This is YOUR FAULT, JOHN! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, Ian. What did you do? WHAT DID YOU 
                DO?

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  REED
                This is YOUR DOING!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                I m going to kill you. I m going to 
                rip your heart out. If you ve hurt 
                her...

He stops running. His legs just give way. He makes it to the 
car. Just. 

Leans against it, close to passing out.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Oh, God. Oh God. Oh God. I m going to 
                kill you. Oh please don t hurt her. 
                Please don t.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed stands there. Hangs up.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Hearing the call terminate, Luther drops the phone and, robbed 
of all his strength, seems about to finally collapse. 

Instead, he leaps behind the wheel of the car.


And runs. And runs. And runs.


                                                                    END OF EPISODE