
GRAHAM SHAND- middle aged, strong, in windcheaterand baseball 
cap - squats in the darkness. 

He s concentrating on something on the ground. He picks up a 
MIRROR COMPACT. Holds it close to his eye. Examines it from 
several angles.

Carefully, he opens the compact - sets it down three feet away 
from where he picked it up. Then he picks up an iPod. Detaches 
the ear-buds. Moves the iPodthree feet to the left, the ear 
buds between his feet. 

Then he stands - viewing this obsessional arrangement - 

Which surrounds the corpse of MONICA POOLE. He s organized THE 
CONTENTS OF HER HANDBAG in a kind of halo around her head. The 
EMPTY BAGis balanced on Monica s sternum.  

He removes the HALF MOON SILVER PENDANT FROM HER THROAT. Stands 
there, the necklace a pendulum in his fist. Swinging over the 
body. Almost as if he s dowsing. He s highly aroused. 

Committing the scene to memory. 


  Establishing. Graham walks towards the house and to the back 
door.


Ripley is leaning against his car. Luther approaches. 

They walk towards the CRIME SCENE. Awkwardness between them.

                                  LUTHER
                Look, Justin - what happened with 
                Burgess - I know it was skirting a 
                dangerous edge -

                                  RIPLEY
                I can t discuss it. I don t want to 
                discuss it. It s done. 

                                  LUTHER
                But you need to know - there s no 
                more. Not from me. No more. I m done. 
                Back on track. Things are going too 
                well for me to risk jeopardisingthem.

                                  RIPLEY
                That s good. 

                                  LUTHER
                So - we okay?

                                  RIPLEY
                Course, Boss. Absolutely.

But Luther s not convinced. He senses doubt in Ripley s 
demeanour.Wants to say more, but they reach the body of Monica 
Poole. IAN REED is already there.

They look down at her. The weird halo of belongings - artfully 
arranged, macabre and beautiful in the early morning light.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 7.


                                  REED
                Three previous victims in five weeks, 
                spread across London. 

                                  LUTHER
                CCTV?

                                  REED
                Vicstwo and three were picked up on 
                camera, heading home alone after 
                nights out. We don t know about Monica 
                yet.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (flicks through case file)
                The first victim died a month ago. The 
                second two weeks later. The third, a 
                week after that. Monica comes five 
                days later. 

                                  LUTHER
                He s escalating fast. This isn t just 
                a serial - this man s on a murder 
                spree.


The street teems with black cabs like glistening tadpoles 
writhing in a pond.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 19.



Police cars tear silently through the night -


- CLAIRE WELDON walking alone. Footsteps echoing. No cars. No 
people. Just a BLACK CAB slowing behind her. Familiar and 
monstrous. 

I/E. GRAHAM S TAXI, LONDON STREET - NIGHT 11 - 22.533838

Graham slows, pulls over alongside Claire, lowers his window.

                                  GRAHAM
                Hey, love! Love -

                                  CLAIRE
                I don t need a cab, thanks. I don t 
                live that far. 

                                  GRAHAM
                It s not that, love. Listen, it just 
                came over the radio - a girl s been 
                attacked just down the road...off 
                  HolywellAvenue. 

                                  CLAIRE
                      (stops)
                Oh, you re joking - 

Glances with dread towards Hollywell Avenue -

                                  GRAHAM
                Apparently he got away before he could 
                do much - but they ve warned us to 
                keep an eye out because he s probably 
                still out there. I had to stop and 
                tell you, love, they make us do it. 
                You sure you ll be all right?

                                  CLAIRE
                      (no)
                Yeah. It s only five minutes -

                                  GRAHAM
                Where do you live?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 22.


                                  CLAIRE
                LaceyRoad? Down that way?

                                  GRAHAM
                That s past Holywell, innit? Look, I d 
                hate it if my girl had to walk home 
                alone, this time of night, all this 
                going on. Hop in.

                                  CLAIRE
                I can t. I haven t got any  -

                                  GRAHAM
                Forget the money. Let s just get you 
                home safely.
                      (she hesitates)
                Come Christmas, give five quid to the 
                dog s home for me.

                                  CLAIRE
                Sure?

                                  GRAHAM
                Course.

She smiles, delighted. Gets in. Sits in the back.

Graham pulls away. His eyes in the rear-view. Seeing her 
HANDBAG. Balanced on her lap. 


POLICE CARS SHARKINGin SILENT PURSUIT - 

LUTHERpaces.

THE TAXI turns onto a DARK, DARKSTREET


Then slows. Prowls along the EDGE of a MUNICIPAL PARK.

POLICE CARS TEAR through the night. 

LUTHER paces. Come on, come on. Come on.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 23.


THE TAXI STOPS near the EDGE OF THE PARK. Suburban quiet. 
Darkness. 

Deserted.

A long, longbeat of OMINOUS SILENCE. Just the familiar, 
CHUGGING GROWLof the taxi s engine - 

Then the LIGHT COMES ON INSIDE THE CAB. Shocking in the 
darkness.

A beat.

A POLICE CAR screams out onto the street in front of the taxi - 
and REED S CAR screeches to a halt behind it. Ripley and Reed 
emerge - sprint to the taxi - badge the driver 

                                  RIPLEY 
                Police! Police! Turn off your engine! 

                                  REED
                Turn off your engine and step outside 
                the car!

He yanks opens the driver s door - and sees -

I/E. BLACK CAB, LONDON STREETS - NIGHT 11 - 22.554141

The DRIVER. Who s silver-haired, late sixties. Not Graham. 

Reed drags him out, throws him over the bonnet, cuffs him. 

                                  REED
                Trevor Rowan, I m arresting you on 
                suspicion of murder -

IN THE BACK:

Ripley QUICKLY GLIMPSESa YOUNG WOMAN: Trevor s passenger. 
Shocked into silence. Her purse still in one hand. A twenty 
pound note in the other. She d been about to pay him.

                                                                            SMASH TO:


Graham at the wheel. Claire in back. City lights pulse over 
them. Rhythmic. Hypnotic. Illuminating his private smile.


Claire Weldon lies dead in a halo of her belongings. Her empty 
handbag balanced on her sternum.

In the silence, her phone rings. Rings off. Begins to ring 
again. A sad song to greet the dawn.

NEARBY

AN EARLY MORNING JOGGER hears the ringing - coming from the 
trees near the path - near the climbing frames - the slides - 
the swings. 

She stops. Listen. Tentatively moves forward to investigate -         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 25.



Alice enters the hospital. She has a LARGE BAGslung across her 
shoulder. It s busy. Anonymous. Nobody pays her the slightest 
attention.


Alice sits on a step.

                                  ALICE
                Don t worry about the call being 
                traced. This is a disposable phone - 
                one conversation, then I wipe it and 
                it goes into someone else s garbage.

INTERCUT LUTHER and ALICE.

Luther shuts the door. Goes to his office window. Watches his 
team - at work. And Schenk entering Teller s office. 

                                  LUTHER
                I told you. I can t talk to you. Not 
                now, not tonight, not tomorrow. Not 
                ever again.

                                  ALICE
                Well, there s a remarkable absence of 
                gratitude for you.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 33.


                                  LUTHER
                Do you know what you ve done?

                                  ALICE
                Given you back your wife. Saved your 
                job. Saved you from disgrace and 
                  imprisonment.

                                  LUTHER
                Alice, you committed murder -

                                  ALICE
                All I did was finish a job you 
                started. What are you going to do, 
                arrest me for it?

                                  LUTHER
                I have to! I m a police officer. I 
                know you did this! 

                                  ALICE
                Shall I articulate why you won t?

                                  LUTHER
                Stop. Just stop. 

                                  ALICE
                Arrest me, I ll tell them you made me 
                do it. You threatened me. There s 
                phone traffic between us to prove it - 
                including the call I m making from 
                this phone. The other SIM cards I 
                kept. 

                                  LUTHER
                Empty threats. Implicate me, implicate 
                yourself. You re far too in love with 
                your own genius to allow that to 
                happen. 

                                  ALICE
                Conspiracy to murder will be just the 
                start of it - I can send you to 
                  hell. You ll burn for the rest of your 
                life. Which is why I would 
                    APPRECIATE...SOME!...GRATITUDE!

Luther is taken aback by her sudden fury - as Alice becomes 
demonic, possessed.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                I DID IT FOR YOU! PIG! FILTH! 

Students glance up at her nervously - 

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                I DID IT FOR YOU!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 34.


                                  LUTHER
                STAY AWAY! STAY OUT OF MY LIFE! STAY 
                AWAY FROM ME!

He hangs up - throws the phone against the wall - it shatters. 

He looks up.

To see the ENTIRE TEAM - Ripley, Teller, Schenk, the SCU  - are 
staring at him. 

He makes a disgusted face, turns away.


Alice stands there, phone buzzing in her hand. Bereft. 


Graham is walking along the street. Remembering. His thoughts 
are interrupted by the phone ringing. 

                                  GRAHAM
                Linda?

INTERCUT GRAHAM and LINDA

                                  LINDA
                What s going on?

                                  GRAHAM
                What do you mean?

                                  LINDA
                The police are here. 

                                  GRAHAM
                What do you mean? What do they want?

                                  LINDA
                I don t know.

                                  GRAHAM
                Did they mention me?

                                  LINDA
                        (venomously)
                What did you do?

                                  GRAHAM
                What did they say?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 40.


                                  LINDA
                Have you been stealing again? Have you 
                been - 
                      (shudders)

                                  GRAHAM
                No! No, of course not. 

                                  LINDA
                What have you done, Graham? What was 
                it?

                                  GRAHAM
                What did they say? They must have said 
                something! What did they say?

Suddenly, Ripley kicks down the door - snatches the phone from 
her hand.

                                  RIPLEY
                You stay there. Do not move.

She cowers weeping against the basin - as Ripley phones Luther.

                                    RIPLEY(cont d)
                We re blown. She called him.


Graham roars with frustration.

                                  GRAHAM
                Not yet! Not yet! Not yet!

He sits on a doorstep. Head in hands. His anger grows. He tugs 
his hair. Rocks on the fulcrum of his coccyx. Doesn t know what 
to do. So much rage, so much frustration.

He PUNCHES HIMSELF IN THE THIGH. It hurts. Then he does it 
again. Hard. Then harder still. And again and again and again, 
howling with the pain of it. But the pain clarifies his mind. 
Because suddenly -

THE PHONE. 

He pulls it out of his pocket. Turns it off. Thinks.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 41.


He gets up off the step.


Graham walks down the street. He slams the phone into the back 
of a parked truck.

He smiles. Sly. Walks on. 


Alice sits on the kerb, hands on her knees - like a child 
waiting for her parent to come home. 

She senses when the man she s been waiting for arrives - looks 
up over her shoulder - gives him a DAZZLING SMILE. A smile full 
of hurt. And perhaps pity.

It s MARK NORTH. Car keys in one hand, briefcase in the other. 

                                  MARK
                Go away.

                                  ALICE
                I can t.

                                  MARK
                I m sick of this. Whatever you re here 
                to say - I don t want to hear it. I 
                really don t. So please - do us all a 
                favour, call yourself an exorcist.

Gestures with keys: excuse me

                                  ALICE
                Oh, I see. You already know. 

                                  MARK
                Know what?

                                  ALICE
                That Zoe s lying to you. 

                                  MARK
                No. No, no no.I don t want to hear 
                it. I want you out of my way, and out 
                of my life.

                                  ALICE
                Yeah, I m hearing that a lot today. 

                                  MARK
                There s something badly wrong with 
                you. I wish I could help you, I really 
                do. But I can t. So I d like you to go 
                away, please, and stay away. You re 
                completely -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 42.


                                  ALICE
                Right. As I suspect you know.

He looks at her. Unblinking. And then sags at the shoulders.

SCENE 68 OMITTED6868


Establishing an ordinary house on a very ordinary street. 


Layla walks to the house, textingsomething. Rings the 
doorbell.


Graham opens the door. On Layla.

                                  LAYLA
                Dennis, is it?

                                  GRAHAM
                  Absolutely.

                                  LAYLA
                      (kisses his cheek)
                Lovely to meet you, Dennis. I m Layla.
                May I?

She steps inside. Her phone rings again. She ignores it.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 52.


Graham closes the door.  


Luther on the phone. He s got through at last!

                                  LUTHER
                      (fast)
                Layla, my name is Detective Chief 
                Inspector John Luther. I need you to 
                listen carefully, keep smiling, act 
                like this is the agency calling - 

INTERCUT LUTHER and LAYLA

She falters. Just for a moment.

                                  LAYLA
                Yes, yeah I got here quite safely. 
                Yes...he is...he s very cute...

                                  LUTHER
                Good. Excellent. Can you safely get 
                out of the house?

                                  LAYLA
                Not right now, love. Not really.

                                  LUTHER
                Then find a safe place. We re on the 
                way. We re very close. 

                                  LAYLA
                Yes, I will. Stop worrying, silly. 
                I ll see you very soon.
                      (hangsup)
                Honestly! 

                                  GRAHAM
                Anyway. Second door on the left -

Layla steps into the BEDROOM -


Ripley and Linda get out. They re met by Reed, who takes 
Linda s arm - leads her - half-running - Where?


Outside, we see POLICE CARS are parked at all angles, doors 
open. No lights, no sirens.


Ripley and A UNIFORMED OFFICER drag Graham towards waiting 
police cars  -

Linda flies from the house - running - howling - 

- brings the hammer down on the back of Graham s skull -

- once - twice - 

- blood sprays Ripley and the uniformed officer.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 4Page 60.


Before Reed is able to react - lunging - grabbing her wrist - 

Graham s knees collapse - he falls - takes Ripley with him - 

Reed throws Linda into the wall - arms behind her back - she s 
shouting something - not a word - a howl of pain - anguish and 
humiliation and hate, terrible hate.

- Ripley grabs his radio - 

                                  RIPLEY
                  Paramedics! Paramedics now!

And UNIFORMED POLICEcome running - running - running - 

