
Numbed, John Luther stumbles through the purgatorial night. 
Past the SPECTRAL HOMELESS, the HOOKERS, the HUSTLERS, the 
FILTH and the VOMIT. Not seeing any of it. 


Police vans. Police tape. Flashing lights. Despite the hour, 
some NEIGHBOURS have gathered to rubberneck. 

Mark North s car pulls up. Parks where it can - in the middle 
of the street. Mark gets out. Bewilderment -

- turning to concern. Then sick terror - as he sees the police 
activity is focussed on HIS HOUSE. He approaches a UNIFORMED 
OFFICER.

                                  MARK
                What s going on?

                                  UNIFORMED OFFICER
                You are?

                                  MARK
                  Mark. Mark North. I live here. Where s 
                Zoe?

Abruptly, he shakes off the officer - tries to shove through 
the barrier. Is hauled back by SEVERAL OFFICERS.


Luther approaches a CHURCH. One of those invisible parts of 
London. Ancient, stone-built, gnarled as an old tree.

Luther stares at it. The overall effect - the darkness and 
loneliness - is unutterably bleak. 

Finally, Luther weeps. A wail of animal pain. Unendurable.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 2.



Luther is sitting in the shadow of the church, his back to the 
old stone wall. Emptied of everything.

But then HE STRAIGHTENS -

- at the sound of an APPROACHING POLICE SIREN.

He stands. Ready to run. 

The sound grows DISTANT as the police car heads in the OTHER 
DIRECTION. 

But Luther is on his feet now.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 5.


Either he sits down again...and gives up...or he moves. 

Takes action. 

So he sets his face in anger and hatred. Digs his hands deep 
into his pockets. And moves.


Schenk s car pulls up. Ripley and Schenk get out. Ripley takes 
a second to steel himself, then heads to the house.

POLICE OFFICERS discreetly point him out - the partner of the 
only suspect. Ripley pretends to be oblivious.


Ripley and Schenk plus assorted UNIFORMED OFFICERS and SOCO 
squat round a DRAIN. THEY BUSTLE, shove each other, shine 
torches. A TALL OFFICER lies in the gutter, reaching far down 
into the drain, using a HOOK FASHIONED FROM A COAT HANGER. 

They watch, spectate really, the silence under the harsh lights 
growing intense as  -

                                  TALL OFFICER
                Got it. Got something. 

Angle on his agony and concentration as he strains to tease it 
from the drain. Drops it. Fishes round. Hooks it again. Pulls 
it out of the drain.

It s a gun. It s the gun. A MILLION FLASHES AS IT S 
PHOTOGRAPHED IN SITU - spotlighting LUTHER S FINGERPRINTS ON 
THE BARREL. In Sugarman s blood. 

Schenk steps forward, produces an EVIDENCE BAG, holds it out. 

A SOCO drops the gun into the bag. There s a brief flurry while 
Schenk and the SOCO countersign.

Ripley approaches.

                                  RIPLEY
                How s it looking?

                                  SCHENK
                      (signing documents)
                  Forensics in the house are 
                  circumstantial. This gun is hard 
                  evidence. I don t want it being 
                  contaminated or  going missing  as the 
                  consequence of some police officer s 
                  misguided loyalty. 

                                  RIPLEY
                  Seriously?

                                  SCHENK
                These are good men, but sometimes 
                goodness affords its own temptations.

                                  RIPLEY
                So what do we do? 

                                  SCHENK
                First rule of chain of evidence: 
                minimise the number of transfers. We 
                take it to the lab ourselves.

ANGLE ON RIPLEY'S HAND. He s still holding the mobile phone. 
The line is open!                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 17.



Schenk leans on the bonnet of his car, arms crossed. Ripley on 
the phone. Sirens are approaching 

                                  RIPLEY 
                He took the gun.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 22.


INTERCUT REED and RIPLEY

                                  REED
                What do you mean, he took the gun?

                                  RIPLEY
                Were were taking it to the lab. He 
                  intercepted us, Martin Schenk and me. 

Reed: get hold of yourself. Okay. Think.

                                  REED
                All right. You need to come in. I 
                think we need to start facing some 
                hard facts, here.

                                  RIPLEY
                What do you mean?

                                  REED
                I mean, he s not acting like an 
                innocent man, is he? 


- stand on the bank of the river. Luther looks at the 
components in his hand. The machine that killed Zoe, reduced to 
abstract shapes. Mirroring the pieces of gun Alice used to kill 
her family.

He reaches back an arm. Throws it all into the water.


Reed shuts the door. Locks it. Looks at his phone. Frightened 
by what he has to do.

                                  REED
                Three - two - one

He dials.


Alice on the phone.

                                  ALICE
                Mr North? My name s Sergeant Nicola 
                  Blackstock - my boss may ve mentioned 
                that I d call? Detective 
                  Superintendant Teller? 

INTERCUT ALICE and MARK

                                  MARK
                      (almost without affect)
                No, no she didn t mention. Can t you 
                leave me alone? Just for an hour?

                                  ALICE
                Well, I know what you must be going 
                through. And I m truly sorry to bother 
                you. So, I ll tell you what - why 
                don t I come to you? Tell me where you 
                are, I ll pop over, ask just a couple 
                of questions. And be out of your hair 
                before you know it.

Mark watches the children play. 

                                  MARK
                If you must.

Alice turns to Luther with a wry look. 


Mark s car, still parked in the same place. Alice approaches. 
Walks to the passenger door. Opens it. Gets in.


Luther gets out.

                                  ALICE
                This isn t going to work if you can t 
                control your temper. It s a weakness. 
                He ll use it.

                                  LUTHER
                I can control it.

                                  ALICE
                You d better. Because - if I 
                  understand correctly - police marksmen 
                don t shoot to wound.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 33.


                                  LUTHER
                No. They shoot to stop. Go for the 
                centre of mass. Here.
                      (points)
                The heart. 

                                  ALICE
                How apropos. 

She gives him a look. He walks away. 


Emptiness. Until Reed appears. A small figure at first. Growing 
until he reaches the dead centre. And waits. Alone. Unarmed. 


THE C019 TACTICAL UNIT lies concealed on the surrounding roofs. 
G36s, binoculars, radios. One of them points a powerful 
PARABOLIC MICROPHONE at Reed.

Teller and Ripley are scanning the area with binoculars. Teller 
is wearing an earpiece, listening in on Reed.

Ripley checks his watch. 11.24.

INTERCUT REED and CO19

As they wait in the LONG, UNBEARABLE SILENCE. 

Teller glances at her watch. Watches SECONDS TICK BY. 

Nobody moves. And then -

Teller s POV: LUTHER COMES SLOWLY MARCHING OVER THE WASTELAND! 
Sure and predatory. No fear. Low hate in his eyes.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (swings his binoculars)
                Got him.

                                  TELLER
                  Sergeant?

                                  CO19
                We ve got a clear shot and are good to 
                go.

Ripley glances at Teller. 

                                  TELLER
                On my order. Not before.

                                  CO19
                Received and understood.

ON THE WASTELAND                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 34.


Luther stops. Faces Reed.

Reed meets his gaze. A long, long moment. Great sorrow in 
Reed s eyes.

                                  LUTHER
                So what do you want me to do? Kill 
                you? Forgive you?

                                  REED
                I just want you to listen.

ON THE ROOFTOP

Fingers tighten on triggers. Luther is SQUARE IN THEIR SCOPES - 
crosshairs lock on to his chest. His beating heart. 

ON THE WASTELAND

                                  REED (cont d)
                I don t understand how you can believe 
                  I actually did this.

                                  LUTHER
                Well, you ve changed your tune since 
                we last spoke.

                                  REED
                      (shakes head, sadly)
                No, John. 

                                  LUTHER
                Okay. I ll play. I believe you did it 
                because you did it. How s that?

ON THE ROOFTOPS

Crosshairs follow Luther s every movement.

ON THE WASTELAND 

                                  REED
                If you really believed that, deep 
                down, then why steal the gun?

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, the gun. Yeah, you did a decent 
                job with that. But it s gone, and so 
                is the only hard evidence they had 
                against me. So all this - whatever 
                angle you re playing to save yourself. 
                It s used up. All over.

                                  REED
                You re not answering the question. 

                                  LUTHER
                I think I am.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 35.


                                  REED
                If you didn t do it, how could there 
                even be any hard evidence against you? 
                How s that possible?

                                  LUTHER
                You wired, Ian? 

With an expression of great sorrow, Reed raises his shirt - 

                                  REED
                Course not. This is about you and me. 
                Nobody s listening in. 

                                  LUTHER
                So what are you trying to say?

                                  REED
                I ve talked to the doctors. And what s 
                  happening to you right now, it s 
                called a dissociative state. It s the 
                mind distancing itself from things 
                that are too much for it to process. 
                You re blaming me because you can t 
                bear to confront what you ve done.  
                You re in pain, in distress. You need 
                help. So come home. 
                      (spreads his arms in a Christ-
                        like gesture)
                Let us help you.

Luther barks a laugh at that. The audacity of it. He claps his 
hands.

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, brilliant! Bravo!

ON THE ROOFTOPS

                                  TELLER
                  Sergeant?

                                  CO19
                Still clear and good to go, ma am.

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther stops clapping.

                                  LUTHER
                Thing is, I know you didn t come alone 
                - you wouldn t have the balls. You 
                came out here with CO19. Right now, 
                they ve got assault rifles trained on 
                my centre of mass. And we don t shoot 
                to stop, do we mate? People in our 
                game, we shoot to kill. Have to, 
                really.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 36.


He turns in a circle, arms spread wide, addressing the 
surrounding buildings, punching himself in the chest.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                HOW IS IT, BOSS? GOT THE KILL SHOT? 
                LOCKED ON TO THE CENTRE OF MASS?

ON THE ROOF

Teller winces, glances at Ripley. Who glances away, ashamed.

ON THE WASTE LAND

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                That s why we re all here! You prod me 
                a bit, wind me up. I lose it, become a 
                threat to your life. Which gives them 
                legal reason to shoot me. Bang bang 
                bang. All your problems solved. Me and 
                my temper, eh?

                                  REED
                John, listen to yourself. You re ill.

                                  LUTHER
                And you re sick. I know which I d 
                rather be. 
                      (Beat)
                  I wonder. Are you at all interested in 
                why I d come here if I knew what you 
                were up to? 

A BRIEF FLICKER ON ANXIETY on Reed s face - as he feels the 
first hint of control slipping away. He recovers quickly.

                                  REED
                I don t know. You want to get 
                  something off your chest? About what 
                you did to Henry Madsen?

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, nice try. But I ve got nothing to 
                confess. Henry Madsen fell. You know 
                how hard I tried to catch him.  

Eye contact - knowing, amused. 

                                  REED
                Yeah. I know how hard you tried to 
                catch him.

                                  LUTHER
                So no, it s not about that. It s not 
                about him. The reason I came here - it 
                was to get you away from the locker 
                room.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 37.


Reed blanches. As Luther grins and LEANS IN. Very, very close. 
Too close for the parabolic mics to pick up.

ON THE ROOF

CO19 minutely adjust their sights. Centred on Luther. 

                                    SHOOTER
                Still clear...still clear...

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther s lips at Reed s ear. As he WHISPERS.

                                  LUTHER
                Because that s where you re keeping 
                the diamonds. Or at least it was. 
                Until - 
                      (checks watch)
                Oooh. About five minutes ago.

ON THE ROOF

Teller and Ripley watch very closely. 

                                  TELLER
                What s he saying? 

ON THE WASTELAND

Reed thinks furiously, realising he s trapped. He needs to get 
away, get to the diamonds. But he can t. 

Luther enjoys his discomfort.

                                  LUTHER
                Tick tick tick. Where could they have 
                gone?

He makes a magician s gesture with his hand - poof.

Beads of sweat on Reed s brow. 

                                  REED
                I didn t hurt Zoe, John. I couldn t. 
                She was special to me. I loved her.

                                  LUTHER
                Do me a favour.

                                  REED
                What?

                                  LUTHER
                Don t say her name. Not now.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 38.


                                  REED
                How can I not? She s what this is all 
                about. 

                                  LUTHER
                Really? I thought it was about me and 
                you.

                                  REED
                That too. You need to hear this from a 
                friend, because you need to wake up, 
                snap out of it. Open your eyes. You 
                always said you loved her, you banged 
                on and on about it, but what did that 
                actually mean? All I saw, you wanted 
                to own her, which isn t the same 
                thing. And now she d dead, because of 
                you.

The smile is gone from Luther s face. He takes a menacing step 
towards Reed. 

ON THE ROOFTOP 

                                  TELLER
                He goes for a weapon, you take the 
                shot. 

                                  RIPLEY
                      (to himself)
                Don t do it. Don t do it. Don t do it. 
                Don t do it.

ON THE WASTE LAND

                                  REED
                If she d never met you, she d still be 
                alive. And God knows, she d have been 
                happier.

                                  LUTHER
                Don t.

                                  REED
                Lie to me, to yourself, to whoever you 
                think s listening. But at some point, 
                you have to snap out of this fantasy 
                and just admit it. You killed her, 
                John! You said you loved her, and you 
                killed her! 

Luther s hand sweeps back his jacket - he reaches behind his 
belt - 

ON THE ROOFTOP                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 39.


                                  TELLER
                Wait to see the weapon. Wait to see 
                the weapon. 

ON THE WASTE LAND

Luther s hand closes on the HANDLE OF THE KNIFE he s got jammed 
in his belt -

ON THE ROOFTOP

Ripley jumps to his feet. KICKS the CO19 marksman!

                                  RIPLEY
                JOHN! RUN!

ON THE WASTELAND 

A frozen instant. Luther sees Ripley. Waving his arms. Run!

Looks at Reed. 

                                  REED
                Gotcha. 

And Luther turns. Runs for his life. Runs and runs and runs.

ON THE ROOFTOP

                                  TELLER
                Hold your fire! Stand down! You can t 
                shoot him in the back!

She faces Ripley. He makes no apology. 

CO19 looking at him.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                Arrest this man.
                      (into her radio)
                All units. Be alert to suspect John 
                Luther, repeat John Luther...

Ripley holds out his hands to be cuffed. CO19 oblige. They re 
not gentle.

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther runs round a corner. Sirens behind him - as SEVERAL 
POLICE CARS enter the estate. 


Luther runs into a RATS  ALLEY. Garbage strewn. Wheelie bins. 
Sirens coming closer and closer.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 40.


At the far end is a CHAIN LINK FENCE. Topped with barbed wire. 
Fronted by old crates, a stained old mattress. The usual 
detritus. Luther sprints towards it.   

The sirens are closer - closer - 

Luther reaches the fence. Casts a FUGITIVE GLANCE over his 
shoulder. Hauls aside the mattress.

Behind it, a hole has been cut into the fence. He worms through 
it, then turns to replace the mattress before the hole, 
covering it. Then he runs.


Teller and Reed walk to a waiting police car, light bar 
flashing. 

                                  REED
                That dick -

                                  TELLER
                Let it go. 

                                  REED
                Would you?  Run, John . What was he 
                  thinking?

                                  TELLER
                He thought he was being John s friend 
                and it s already cost him everything. 
                So let it go.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 41.


                                  REED
                You fired him?

                                  TELLER
                And charged him as an accessory. 
                Ripley's finished. 

                                  REED
                Well, that s what being John s friend 
                does for us all in the end. We all pay 
                a price for it. 
                      (gets in)
                Let s get back. 


Mark and Schenk pause outside Mark s car.

                                  SCHENK
                What was it you wanted to say?

                                  MARK
                It doesn t matter.

                                  SCHENK
                Mr North -

                                  MARK
                  Seriously. It doesn t matter. It was 
                nothing.

A beat, then Schenk concedes with a shrug. 

                                  SCHENK
                As you say.

Mark gets in. Exhales. Drives away. Schenk watching.


Reed hurries to his car. Opens the boot. 

Lifts up a SAWN OFF SHOTGUN, wraps it in a grey blanket, 
removes it.

Gets in the driver s seat. Lays the shotgun in the front 
passenger footwell.


We ve come FULL CIRCLE. This place is very similar to the place 
we met John Luther - wild eyed and vengeful, in Episode 1.

Mark s car pulls up. Parks in front of a BROODING MONOLITH of a 
DECAYED WAREHOUSE.

A long, silent beat. Then Mark gets out. Map in hand. We see 
now that it corresponds to the old warehouse, marking a route 
within.

Mark approaches the door. The only sound...his footsteps on 
gravel. The door is blocked by massive sheets of corrugated 
iron.

He hauls aside the corrugated door. Horrible screech of metal 
on metal. He steps into the dripping gloom.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 49.



Two hundred metres away, hidden by the corner of another 
building, Reed s car pulls up. 


Reed squat-runs towards the old warehouse - reaches the door - 
eases himself through. Slow and silent.  


EIGHT MARKED SQUAD CARS and SEVERAL VANS surround the warehouse 
at all angles. UNIFORMED OFFICERS, an ARMED ASSAULT TEAM. A 
HELICOPTER passes by overhead. 

Schenk, Teller and Cornish make their way towards the decaying 
warehouse, the corrugated iron door - 


                                                                        SMASH CUT TO

