
Quiet.  Still.  

ANGELIQUE BURCELL stumbles into view, almost falls.  

Frail to the point of fragile, scratched and bruised.  
Bundled up in a heavy sweater.  Eye blacked.


Angelique runs into a clearing, early morning mist all 
around.  She looks back to see if anyone follows her.

This time, when she stumbles, she falls.  She cries out, but 
jumps up, keeps moving.


A luxury sedan a few years old speeds along a country road.  
There s no one else around, so the sedan s hauling ass.


-- as Angelique cries out, afraid.  She cuts through the 
woods, runs as fast as she dares.  She keeps looking back, 
and as a result, runs head-first into a branch.

Even cut and bleeding, she doesn t break stride.

When she hits a sudden slope, she loses her footing and goes 
slip-sliding down --


-- losing her footing as she spills out into the road --

-- directly in front of O'Shea s car!


The car does almost a complete 360 before coming to rest.
Everything s silent again.


O'Shea sprints to her.  Angelique looks at him, disoriented. 

                            O'SHEA
            Are you hurt?

                            ANGELIQUE
            ... I don t know.

Kim climbs out of the car and joins them. 

                            O'SHEA
            Come with us.  We re going to a clinic 
            right now, so we can check you out... 
            make sure you re okay... 

                          KIM
            Can you tell me your name, sweetie?

                            ANGELIQUE
              Angelique.

                          KIM
            We re going to help you, Angelique, if 
            you get in the car.

They both help her into the back seat.  She holds her sweater 
pulled closed around herself the entire time.

As they close the door behind her, Kim shakes her head at 
O'Shea, speaks quietly.

                          KIM
            She seems really out of it.

                            O'SHEA
              Hopefully, she s just in shock.  But 
            we ll make sure.

They climb back into the car.  As O'Shea pulls back onto the 
road, Angelique turns so she can look out the back window.

She watches the woods closely, still scared.           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  4.





A surprisingly modern building stands alone in the middle of 
nowhere.  A tall security fence surrounds the entire 
perimeter of the property, including a parking lot with about 
twenty spaces.

A lone security guard, KIERNAN, sits in his guard shack from 
which he can run the automatic gate.  He watches a little TV, 
but looks up at the sound of O'Shea s approaching car.

As soon as he recognizes O'Shea, he punches the button to 
open the gate.  By the time O'Shea pulls up, the gate s 
almost all the way open.

A large square-framed guy in his 20s, DOUG, stands waiting in 
the parking lot.  He s got on a vest over his shirt with 
 ESCORT  written in large yellow letters on the back.

                            KIERNAN
            Hey, doc.  Running a little late this 
              morning, aren t you?

                            O'SHEA
                  (calls out window)
            Doug, go get Dr. Kiefer for us.  Now.  
            And bring a wheelchair.

Doug doesn t hesitate.  He heads inside as O'Shea pulls into 
one of the spaces closest to the building.

O'Shea climbs out and opens Angelique s door.  She looks up 
at the sign above the front door of the clinic.

Angelique suddenly bursts into tears.

                            O'SHEA
            I can take you someplace else if it s 
              really that big a problem.

                            ANGELIQUE
            No... it s not that.  Nothing s wrong.  
            I m just... so happy you found me.

Kiernan s so busy paying attention to O'Shea and Angelique 
that he doesn t see another vehicle approaching on the 
private road, a van that picks up speed as it approaches.

O'Shea and Kim help Angelique out of the car as Doug emerges 
from the clinic pushing a wheelchair.

                            DOUG
            Dr. Kiefer s coming.  Let me help you.           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  5.




Doug puts Angelique in the wheelchair.  As she settles in, 
she looks back toward the gate.

She spots the van, no more than fifty yards from the still-
open gate now.

                            ANGELIQUE
            Don t let them in.  Please.

Doug spots the van.

                            DOUG
            Hey, Kiernan, heads up.

Kiernan turns, sees the van approaching.  He throws the 
switch to close the gate.

The van doesn t slow down, though.  Still approaching.
The gate doesn t close fast enough.  The van might make it.

Kiernan steps back, suddenly nervous, and puts his hand on 
the gun he wears on his hip.

Then, finally --

-- the van turns aside.

It stops.  Idling there, ten yards away.  We can t see the 
driver or the passengers at all.  The windows are tinted so 
dark they re black.

                            DOUG
              Great.  What the fuck is he doing here?

                            O'SHEA
            Get her inside.  We ll take care of this.

Doug and Kim take Angelique inside, moving quickly.


Kiefer walks out, sees O'Shea and Kiernan standing together.

                            KIEFER
            He s violating his court order, you know.

                            O'SHEA
            We were just talking about that.

                            KIEFER
            And?  What are you doing about it?

                            KIERNAN
              I closed the gate.

Kiefer waits for more.  Realizes it s not forthcoming.

                            KIEFER
            ... and?!


Kiernan can tell Kiefer s not going away.

                            KIERNAN
                    (exasperated)
            Fine.

He unlocks the gate, steps through, and walks out to the van.  

                            KIERNAN
              Dwayne... I just want to talk to you.

He moves slowly, hand out, away from his gun.           EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  7.




                            KIERNAN
            Just put your window down, okay?

He stops about ten feet away from the driver s side.

                            KIERNAN
              Dwayne?


Kiernan stands there, still waiting.  Finally, the window 
goes down, revealing --

-- DWAYNE BURCELL.  Late 40s, powerfully-built, with a stare 
that could peel paint.

He doesn t look at Kiernan as he talks to him.

                            KIERNAN
              Dwayne... you know you can t be this 
            close to the property.

                            DWAYNE
            You got my little girl in there.


Kiernan isn t sure if Dwayne s serious or not.  He decides 
not to find out.  He walks back through the guard shack, back 
to where Kiefer and O'Shea wait.

                            KIERNAN
            Doc, do you know anything about Dwayne s 
              daughter being a patient here?

                            KIEFER
            Tell him he can call to discuss this 
              later, but he can t be within 500 yards 
            of the gate.

                            KIERNAN
            He seems pretty sure she s in there.

                            KIEFER
            And I m pretty sure he could go to jail 
            if he doesn t move that goddamn van.

Cursing under his breath, Kiernan walks back over to Dwayne s 
window, getting a little closer this time.


Dwayne considers Kiernan for a long moment.

Finally, he puts the van in gear.

                            DWAYNE
            You got fifteen minutes.

The van heads back up the private road the way it came.  
Kiernan doesn t relax until the van s out of view again.


Kiernan walks out to face Dwayne, staying inside the fence.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  15.




                            KIERNAN
              Doctor O'Shea s on his way out.  He wants 
            to talk to you.

                            DWAYNE
              Unless he s going to tell me my 
              daughter s ready to leave, we don t have 
              a blessed thing to talk about.

                            O'SHEA (O.S.)
            Well, I guess we don t have a blessed 
            thing to talk about then.

Dwayne looks up sharply to see O'Shea walking toward them.  
Kim waits by the front door, afraid of Dwayne.

                            DWAYNE
              I gave you people fifteen minutes.

                            O'SHEA
            There are a couple more things we need to 
            do to ensure your daughter s well-being.  
            And that is what s most important to 
              you... right, Dwayne?

                            DWAYNE
            The only thing you can do to ensure her 
              wellbeing is let her out of that damn 
                slaughterhouse.  I m not playin  around.

                            O'SHEA
              Neither am I.  And you re not supposed to 
            be this close to the building.  I suggest 
            you back out of here until we re done 
            with the tests.

                            DWAYNE
            I can imagine exactly what you doctors 
            want to do.  I m sure you ve got your 
              plans.  Problem is, she s only fifteen 
            years old, and as much as it must 
              frustrate you, it s not your choice to 
            make.  It s mine.  And I want her out of 
            there now.  Lord knows what sinful things 
              you ve already done to her.

                            O'SHEA
            Calm down.  We haven t done anything.  
            We re just looking her over... making 
            sure she s okay.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  16.




                            DWAYNE
            While I m locked out here?  Does that 
            seem right to you?

                            O'SHEA
            You know why you can t come in.  If you 
              weren t such a threat to safety...

                            DWAYNE
            The only thing I m a threat to is you 
              people profiting from murder.  I know 
              exactly what this place is and I m not 
              afraid to say so.  That s what makes me a 
              threat.  You re afraid of me because I 
            call you out as the murderers you are.

                            O'SHEA
              I can t let you in and that s all there 
            is to it.  And we re not ready to 
              discharge Angelique yet.  I don t know 
            what else to tell you, Dwayne.

                            DWAYNE
            Well, then, guess we ve got a problem... 
            don t we?  And you call me Mr. Burcell 
            from now on, you snapped-off little shit.

O'Shea steps right up to the fence, inches from Dwayne.

                            O'SHEA
            Let me ask you something...
                    (pointedly)
            ... Dwayne... man to man.  The baby... 
            it s yours...

Dwayne s fury builds quickly as O'Shea smiles, taunting him.

                            O'SHEA
            ... isn t it?

Dwayne snaps! BAM! He lunges forward and grabs the fence!

O'Shea stands his ground, unafraid of Dwayne.

                            O'SHEA
            Oh, I m sorry.  Is that a secret?

Dwayne quivers with rage, barely able to speak he s so angry. 

                            DWAYNE
            If any harm comes to that baby... I ll 
            take you to Hell personally.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  17.




Finally, Dwayne turns and storms away, pulls open the back 
doors of the van, then climbs inside.

Kiernan releases a long, shaky breath, relieved, as O'Shea 
walks back to where Kim waits by the door.

                            O'SHEA
            Don t worry.  He s all talk.


Dwayne s van pulls up on the service road behind the clinic, 
parks.  Dwayne climbs out, walks around to the fence.

There s a utility pole on the other side of the fence, about 
three feet in.

Dwayne raps on the side of the van three times, sharp.

The back door swings open, and three guys climb out.  CALEB, 
25.  COLE, 23.  DARRY, just 19.  Dwayne s sons.

                            DWAYNE
              Darry, you got your work belt in the 
            back?

                            DARRY
            Yep.

                            DWAYNE
            If we get the van right up next to the 
              fence, can you get up that pole and cut 
            their phones?

Darry looks up the pole.

                            DARRY
            Yeah.  I think so.

                            DWAYNE
            Cole, move the van.  Put it exactly where 
            Darry tells you.

                            DARRY
              Daddy... once we get inside... what are 
            you gonna do?

                            DWAYNE
            Not sure yet.

                            DARRY
              I don t wanna hurt nobody.

                            DWAYNE
              I don t, either.  But that s your sister 
            in there.

                            DARRY
              Yessir.

Dwayne gives Cole the keys to the van.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  20.




                            DWAYNE
            I m gonna pray about this.

Dwayne walks off.  Cole gets in the front, starts the van.  
Darry and Caleb go to the back door and open it so Darry can 
get his climbing belt and tools. 

We get a glimpse of what else they have in back, stacked 
across a seat:  Guns.  A number of them.


Dwayne stands by himself, quiet, eyes closed.  He prays, 
under his breath.

There s a VOICE, just at the edge of hearing.  

Dwayne opens his eyes, looks around.  His sons are all fifty 
feet away, by the van, watching Darry up on the pole.  He s 
not sure what it was, but he knows he heard something.

Dwayne closes his eyes again.  Listens closer.

And this time, there s no mistake.  He hears a voice, like a 
rumble of distant thunder, on the wind all around him but 
somehow in his head, too.

                            VOICE
              Protect.  The baby.

Dwayne snaps to attention, filled with sudden extreme 
emotion.  He looks up into the clear blue sky, almost moved 
to tears.

                            DWAYNE
              I will.  Whatever it takes.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  21.




Dwayne walks back over to join his boys as Darry climbs down 
off the pole, still inside the fence.

                            DWAYNE
            We ll drive around front.  One way or 
              another, we ve got to get that gate open. 

                            DARRY
            I ll do what I can.

Darry takes off toward the building.  Caleb and Cole watch 
him go, and Cole shakes his head in disgust.

                            COLE
            He s soft, daddy.  He s worried.  Thinks 
              you re going to get us in trouble.

                            DWAYNE
            We re way past worrying about trouble, 
            boys.  You know how strongly I ve felt 
            about this place since it opened.

                            CALEB
              You re right to be worried.  They ve got 
              people here every day.  That s hundreds 
            of babies every year... snuffed out...

                            DWAYNE
            We ve done good work here so far.  Our 
              protests.  Our letters.  The Senator 
              himself said he agrees it s a problem.  
            In the long run, things will change.  But 
            for now.  Today.  God requires us to take 
              action.  We have been... called.

                            CALEB
            To do what?

Dwayne opens the van door so he can see the guns.  He picks 
up a handgun, checks to make sure it s loaded.

                            DWAYNE
              Protect the baby.


Kiernan stands in the booth.  Hears an approaching vehicle.  
Spots Dwayne s van.  Get s real still, on edge.

Dwayne drives up to the fence, stops.

Dwayne climbs out.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  22.




Kiernan steps out of the guard shack, walks up to he fence, 
staying on the inside.

                            KIERNAN
              Dwayne, she s not ready to come out yet.

He sees how serious Dwayne seems, and it spooks him.

Kiernan walks into the guard shack and picks up the phone.  
He tries dialing.  No dial tone, though.  He tries hanging 
up.  Picks it up again.  Still no dial tone.

Kiernan steps back out of the shack.

                            KIERNAN
            Okay, look, there s something... Dwayne?

Dwayne s gone from where he was.  Kiernan takes a few more 
steps out, confused.

                            KIERNAN
              There s a problem, Dwayne.  Dwayne?!

                            DWAYNE (O.S.)
            Of course there is.

Kiernan turns to look, sees Dwayne s much closer, right up 
against the fence.  He walks over to where Dwayne is, keeps a 
foot or two back from the fence.

                            KIERNAN
            I ll take care of it.

                            DWAYNE
            No, you won t.  You ll just give me more 
            lies to buy them more time and keep me 
            out here.  Dr. Kiefer is the only one who 
            can  take care of this.   I don t have a 
              complaint with you.  Just... open the 
            gate and stand down.

                            KIERNAN
              I can t do that.

                            DWAYNE
              I sure wish you would.

There s a sound and some movement out of the corner of 
Kiernan s eye.  He turns his back on Dwayne and sees Darry 
emerging from beside the clinic.

                            KIERNAN
            Hey! Stop right there!         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  23.




Darry freezes, scared.  Kiernan lays his hand on his sidearm.

                            DARRY
            No, don t!

Dwayne reaches into coat and pulls out pistol, takes aim at 
the back of Kiernan s head.

BLAM! One shot, loud, smoke and a mist of blood in the air!

Kiernan staggers, and after a few seconds, a sheet of blood 
pours down his face. Suddenly unsteady on his feet, he 
wobbles, shakes his head, then buckles and goes down.

                            DWAYNE
            Open the gate, Darry.

Darry s too shaken by the murder.

                            DARRY
            What did you do?

                            DWAYNE
            God s will.

Frustrated, Dwayne opens the van doors so Caleb and Cole can 
climb out.

                            DWAYNE
            Noise doesn t matter.  Speed does.  Get 
            us into that guard shack, boys.

Caleb and Cole grab shotguns and walk over to the guard shack 
door.  The aim for the lock and open fire.


Dwayne and his sons march across the parking lot, guns up.


Dwayne and his sons reach the front doors and try them.  
Locked.

                            DWAYNE
            Of course.  Looks like God isn t the only 
            one who intends to test us today, boys.


O'Shea finishes checking on everyone and rejoins Kim, who 
sits next to Angelique.

                            O'SHEA
            We should get her to the procedure rom 
            where we can protect her and keep 
              everyone else out of this.

                          KIM
              Honey, we re going to move you.

                            ANGELIQUE
            I m sorry about my daddy.

                          KIM
            Don t think about it.  Just sit up.

Kim helps Angelique up and throws back her blanket.

                            O'SHEA
            Oh my god.

He stares at her stomach, swollen even more now so she looks 
six months pregnant or more.  Twice as big as she was before.


Angelique walks outside in shorts and a t-shirt.  She walks 
across the big back yard towards a swing.

                            ANGELIQUE (V.O.)
            It was warm.  We live pretty far out of 
            town, so it s quiet.  You can see the 
              stars, and I was staring up at them.

Angelique takes a seat on the swing, stares up at the stars.

                            ANGELIQUE (V.O.)
            I was worrying about whether or not we 
            were gonna have a pop quiz in Algebra.


We hear the sound she described.  The booming getting closer.  
She looks down at the soft dirt under her feet.  It shakes, 
rumbling as something big moves underground.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  27.




The sound stops.  The dirt at her feet stops moving.  
Angelique exhales, sure whatever is happening is over.

BOOM! Two powerful ARMS break the earth under her feet and 
shoot up straight at her.  Angelique screams as the claw-like 
hands grab her ankles!


Darry sits near Kiernan s body, looking at him, at his open, 
unseeing eyes.  Caleb and Cole come around from the sides of 
the building, back to where Dwayne waits.

                            CALEB
              There s no other way in.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  28.




                            DWAYNE
            Then get to it.  Get us in that front 
            door, boys.
                  (to Darry)
            Come on, Darry.

                            DARRY
            No, daddy.  I ain t goin .

                            DWAYNE
            It had to be done, boy.

                            DARRY
              That s why you don t want me in there 
            with you.  I don t have it in me, even if 
            it has to be done.

Caleb and Cole ready their guns by the front door.

                            DWAYNE
                  (to Darry)
              Alright, then.  Wait for us here.  But if 
              anybody tries to leave or get the cops... 
            you gotta stop  em.

Darry nods, relieved.  Dwayne joins Caleb and Cole.

                            DWAYNE
            We go in fast.  We find Angelique.  As 
            long as no one tries to stop us or hurt 
            her, we try to do no harm.  But they will 
            not stop us.  We cannot let your sister 
            down.  They cannot hurt the baby.


Sam, Marie, and Isobel run out of the destroyed front door, 
into the parking lot.

Darry sees them heading for their car.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  41.




                            DARRY
            What the hell?! Where d you come from?!

As Darry fumbles for his gun, Sam presses his keys into 
Marie s hand.

                          SAM
            Get in the car.  Go.

Sam walks forward to block Darry, to give Marie and Isobel a 
chance to escape.

                            DARRY
              Mister, you can t leave.  Tell them to 
            stop that.

                          SAM
            We don t have anything to do with this.

                            DARRY
              That s not the point.  You can t leave.

                          SAM
            My daughter... she s still pregnant.  She 
              didn t have any procedure.  She s 
              innocent.  And you don t want to kill an 
              innocent person... do you?

As he talks, Sam keeps moving closer to Darry.  So slowly 
that Darry doesn t really notice at first.  

Once he realizes, though, he snaps his gun up.

                            DARRY
            You better stop right there.


Sam and Darry stand facing each other.  Neither one of them 
moving.  Isobel and Marie sit in their car, weeping.

                          SAM
            No one has to know we were even here.  We 
            won t say a word.  We won t call anybody.

                            DARRY
              I don t believe you.

Sam can see that Darry s not going to budge.

                          SAM
              Goddamn it!

He lunges forward and tries to grab the gun.

BLAM! Darry shoots Sam in the stomach, and Sam s knocked 
backwards, lands on his hands and knees.

Sam looks down at his midsection.  Most of his guts hang out, 
burnt and ragged.

                          SAM
                Ohmygodyoufuckingkilledme...

Darry shoots Sam again, in the head this time, and drops him 
completely.

Darry steps back and looks at Sam s body, like he s dreaming.

He finally seems to see Marie and Isobel in their car.  
Isobel screams, hysterical.  Marie just stares at her 
husband s body, numb.

Darry realizes what s done, and he backs away.         EP. 4 -  LIKE FATHER LIKE SON,  Yellow, 05/30/06  43.




