 
FADE IN: 
 
 
As HARRY literally bulldozes his way to the front of the taxi 
queue. A FRENCH DELEGATE joins him in his rudeness. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
        You know why Bush is coming, of course. The real 
                                      reason. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Fran ois, what can I say. It s a very special 
                                    relationship. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 3 

        The meeting with your PM s a feint. He s here to 
                              meet the Libyans. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            I can t believe that. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
            You don t have to believe it. Look at this 
            evening s diplomatic crates from Washington. 
                                      (knowingly) 
                                      We have. 
 
                                        HARRY 
         All diplomatic materials are to remain property 
          of the representative government at all times.  
                            U.N. Resolution 3501. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
         More than half of modern culture depends on what 
                    one shouldn t read.  Oscar Wilde. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We do not conduct espionage against our closest 
                                        ally. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
        They pay us to watch you, as if you didn t know. 
        Come on Harry, we re all Europeans now. Whose side 
                              are you on anyway? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ours. 
 
The DELEGATE gets into a cab. HARRY opens another taxi door, 
as ZOE, DANNY and TOM step inside. As TOM steps up - he sees 
CHRISTINE getting in to the cab next door. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You said a minute. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  Don t believe everything you hear. 
 
 
Airforce One roars into the sky. It s daytime there. 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
        Tower this is Air Force One we are wheels up and 
                                        clear. 
 
                              GEORGE W. BUSH V.O. 



 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 4 

          The reasons for our actions will be clear, the 
                      force measured, the cause just. 
 
TITLES 
 
 
ESTABLISHER: Lights blaze tonight. 
 
 
UNKNOWN POV: TOM on the pavement - hailing a cab - the unknown 
POV hinting that he s being watched. But by whom...? 
 
 
VICKY is on her mobile. Junior doctors come and go behind her. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            I ve been calling you. 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                        TOM 
                              About fifty times. 
 
                                        VICKY 
        Maybe if you called me back once or twice I might 
                      not have to ring you so much. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              This has to stop. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 17 

                                        VICKY 
                  You ve already made that very clear. 
 
                                        TOM 
          The calling, Vicky. It has to stop right now. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            So clinical, Tom. You d make a good surgeon, 
                                      y know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Vicky, I m warning you- 
 
                                        VICKY 
        Stop trying to sound angry, Tom. You re not angry. 
            You re guilty. You re ashamed at how you ve 
          treated me, and who - sorry, machine man, that 
            should be WHAT - WHAT you ve become. Tom the 
                  Terminator. Tom the See Through Spook. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Don t call me again, okay? Just don t. 
                                  (she s silent) 
                                        Vicky? 
 
A chuckle. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          I can t wait to see your face when you find out. 
 
TOM - chilled to the very core - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Find out what? 
 
Vicky hangs up. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                Find OUT WHAT?! 
 
 
A strange MAN can be seen lurking in the bushes, dialling a 
number on his mobile. 
 
TOM gets out of the cab, tells it to wait. Walks through the 
shadows towards his front door. Instantly alert, he takes out 
his keys. Senses something s wrong. About to unlock his door 
when- 
 
The strange MAN steps out of the darkness about ten feet 
behind him. Just off the street. TOM senses him, turns. The 
MAN is seedy-looking. 50s, in a suit that s just a bit too 
grubby. 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                                      Finally. 
 
TOM eyes him silently. Emergency mode equals calm- 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I m sorry, I don t know you. 
 
                                SEEDY MAN (duh) 
          Obviously. But look, time is money and all that. 
                      Are you working or what, Tom? 
 
                                  TOM ( Tom ??) 
                              I m dialling 999 - 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
        Tom Quinn. It s definitely you, so don t try and 
                                      deny it. 
 
He holds up a flyer. It s instantly recognisable as one of 
those sex ads. Like a phonebox card, but bigger. TOM isn t 
going to take it. But his eyes are drawn to it. 
 
In particular, to the picture - 
 
With a trembling hand, he holds it up to the light. And horror 
on his face - 
 
INSERT: THE FLYER 
 
It s a picture of TOM. In big letters,  TOM QUINN - On Her 
Majesty s Sexy Service. A bona fide SPOOK offering all the 
usual undercover services...  
 
Below the picture, and much, much more scary: 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 21 

 
TOM s address. TOM s phone numbers. 
 
BACK TO SCENE 
 
As TOM takes this in. SEEDY MAN steps forward. 
 
                              SEEDY MAN (cont d) 
                            So? Are you working? 
 
TOM grabs the MAN by the lapel and pushes him roughly into the 
bushes - 
 
                              SEEDY MAN (cont d) 
                      Now we re getting somewhere- 
 
But his comment is stopped by TOM s forearm constricting his 
windpipe. Pain. TOM is murderously quiet- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Where did you find this? 
 
He releases the MAN s neck enough for a breath- 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                              You re hurting me- 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Where-did-you-find-this? 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                                  Usual place- 
                                        (pain) 
          In a bloody phonebox, mate! Where d you think? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    A phonebox...? 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
        Outside The Fire Island Club. But there s a bunch 
      in the loos too. Saturation advertising if you ask 
              me. You re wallpapered around that place. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Get away from me - go! 
 
The SEEDY MAN runs - confused, angry. TOM s reeling now. Can t 
bear to look at that flyer again. But he must. Grabs his keys, 
hands shaking - fuck fuck fuck fuck - 
 
His mobile rings again. He snatches at the phone. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 22 

                                        What? 
 
                              MALE VOICE (V.O.) 
                                Hello gorgeous - 
 
TOM hangs up. It rings again. TOM escapes into his house- 
 
 
Night-time. London sleeps. But not here. 
 
INSERT: SCREEN 
 
Air Force One edging ever closer... we hear Comms chatters: 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
            Tower this is Air Force One, we re still on 
                          schedule for Brize Norton. 
 
 
SAM walks through the street crowds. Finds a phone box. 
Enters. A little shocked when she sees TOM s flyer. 
 
 
Establisher shot of the Palace. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
        Christine. Since news of this visit leaked we have 
                                      received... 
 
 
Sun has risen. Somewhere, a plane flies. 
 
 
UNKNOWN POV: TOM and CHRISTINE leave, watched from this 
unknown position. They get into a waiting car. 
 
The car moves off - as do we - 
 
And we realise that we re in a car too. Following. 
 
 
We see a parade of livered guards walk past... But we re 
interested in the van parked a little way off... 
 
                                  CHRISTINE V.O. 
        I m not worried about snipers, it s a closed limo. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                        So let s free up Blue team. 
 
                                  CHRISTINE V.O. 
            I still want rooftop detail covering all the 
                              chutes out of there. 
 
 
CHRISTINE and TOM walk from the van... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    Walkthrough time. Come on, Sparky. 
 
A line of POLICE are here, plus plain clothes and the 
ubiquitous Secret Service men. Underneath, the patrols 
continue. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          I understand my  vetting  request on the Muslim 
              officer caused some ripples. That right? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It certainly did. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        I m sorry about that Tom. I m just protecting my 



 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 39 

                                      President. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Of course you are. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              By the way. Any idea who s following us? 
 
TOM turns back - to be confronted with a very angry VICKY: 
 
                                        VICKY 
                              I knew it-I KNEW IT! 
 
Heads are turning- 
 
                                  VICKY (cont d) 
          I sodding well knew you were two-timing me. Who 
                      the hell are you, witch face? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Excuse me-? 
 
                                        VICKY 
          Well I m your worst nightmare sweetie, an ex-
                  girlfriend with bigger tits than you. 
 
                              TOM (goes to Vicky) 
          You are putting yourself and others in a lot of 
        danger right now, unless you get the hell out of 
                                        here. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            Oh, what, it s some big spy bonanza is it? 
                            (some bystanders look) 
        He s a spy you know. Tom Quinn is a SPOOK! So what 
          if you ask me, it s no great shakes. I should 
                                        know! 
 
TOM pulls her close- 
 
                                        TOM 
                The flyers, Vicky - how many are there? 
 
                                VICKY (smiling) 
                            The look on your face- 
 
TOM makes himself scarce- 
 
                      CHRISTINE (loudly, obviously) 
          Hey lady I don t know who you are but Bob and I 
          have been happily married for six years and if 
        you re on some kind of bad drug trip I suggest you 
                        look into rehab right away - 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 40 

 
                                        VICKY 
        No-one dumps ME like a sack of shit and gets away 
                            without PAYING FOR IT! 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Someone call an ambulance for this woman, she s 
                                    not well- 
 
CHRISTINE now departs, leaving a few plain clothes Secret 
Service agents to move in and gently nudge her back the way 
she came. VICKY regards the Met Police for a moment - realises 
this is a good time to walk away. And she does. 
 
 
A quiet oasis, TOM with his thoughts. CHRISTINE standing with 
him. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Ex-girlfriend, huh?  
                                    (Tom nods) 
                              Wanna talk about it? 
 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 41 

TOM shakes his head. CHRISTINE shrugs. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                          You must be a great lay. 
 
TOM checks his watch. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We better get back. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You better start telling me exactly what s going 
                                        on. 
 
We hold on the look between them - 
 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE. CHRISTINE is looking at TOM s copy of the 
flyer. 
 



 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 42 

                                        TOM 
                          It s all under control. 
 
She turns back to TOM - sceptical. But it soon changes to the 
concerned look of a friend. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        It s a career defining moment, Tom. If the wrong 
          kind of someone s seen those pictures of you - 
        you ll never go out in the field again, that s for 
            sure. Jesus, Tom. You could lose your job. 
 
TOM nods - he knows that. And it hurts, deeply. 
 
                          CHRISTINE (cont d) (beat) 
                            Okay. Who else knows? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      No-one. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          You just tore them all down yourself, did you? 
 
                                        TOM 
            I had some help but that s all. One person. 
 
CHRISTINE thinks. Looks at her watch. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          Well. Now you ve got two. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Christine-I don t know... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I m not letting you deal with this on your own. 
                                      Come on. 
 
TOM is at a loss-CHRISTINE starts to harden. The individual 
slowly replaced by the corporate- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
            Whatcha gonna do? Wait around til she does it 
                                        again? 
 
                                  TOM (resolved) 
              I have to clear it with Harry before I do 
                                      anything- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Are you kidding? You ve seen what she s capable 
                                        of. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 43 

The seriousness of this is finally hitting TOM - and CHRISTINE 
now fully on a CIA official statement: 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        No reason why she s going to stop now. We have to 
                    act now before she does it again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Wait a second- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          That woman is jeopardising the security of this 
          operation. This is now a CIA matter. And we will 
                        not hesitate to act alone. 
 
Off TOM s reaction - his phone rings - 
 
 
VICKY tends to a patient as he is brought out of an ambulance. 
 
A car pulls up nearby, and two men get out. Two large men in 
suits. 
 
With the thickest necks you ve ever seen. TRENT and Brent. 
 
It takes VICKY a second to realise - a second too late as 
she s grabbed and held against the wall by TRENT/Brent. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                        Help! 
 
A large suit hoves in to her ear. 
 
                                        SUIT 
                                        Ssh. 
 
They start to move her away - 
 
Colleagues stand and stare... VICKY looks pleadingly-they turn 
away. All been briefed. 
 
 
STOCK FOOTAGE: Marine One s rotors scythe through the air. 
 
                                MARINE ONE (V.O.) 
          RAF Halton, this is Marine One, wheels down on 
                  south field ETA forty minutes over. 
 
                              HALTON VOICE (V.O.) 
        Roger that Marine One. Looking forward to seeing 
                                    you again. 
 
 
The beautiful house. A U.S. Secret Service suit wanders past 
in standard issue sunglasses. Earpiece blaring. 
 
 
Rooftop counter-sniper teams survey the horizon. One of them 
taps his colleague - they focus on something... 
 
 
Snipers on the roof keep watch on the horizon. Suddenly one of 
them spots something... 
 
 
A Tornado roars into the sky - and then another - 
 
