 
ESTABLISHER: The camera sweeps along from the seafront: palm 
trees swaying in a stiff wind, the vestiges of a wonderful 
sunset in the sky, the lights of cars, big mansions over 
looking the seafront. 
 
CAPTION:  Miami, Florida.  
 
SOUNDTRACK: from the first series of The Sopranos. Tony 
fighting off assailants in his car. 
 
 
The camera moves towards the window of a miami mansion that 
speaks of wealth. Palm trees are in the garden, the window has 
shutters, half open. There is a CCTV camera on the wall: 
 
SOUNDTRACK: the Sopranos scene continues. 
 
A man is patrolling the garden with a flash light. And 
approaching the man with the flash light from behind are three 
men. One has a sack. They slap a tape across his mouth and 
overpower him. 
 
The camera moves away from the fight and up to the window of 
the mansion... 
 
 
Outside the hotel entrance we see a MAN standing at a bus-stop 
reading a newspaper. TOM exits the hotel. The MAN looks up 
over his paper, eyes boring into TOM s back. 
 
TOM senses it. He does not turn around. 
 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                      What do you mean? Where is it? 
 
                                  MALCOLM (V.O.) 
                                        There. 
 


 7                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 8 

                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                                        Where? 
 
 
CHRISTINE DALE and ZOE lean over the balustrude and talk. 
CHRISTINE has her handbag with her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Nice bag. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Oh, thank you. 
 
 
DANNY standing nearby, wired up and listening in to ZOE and 
CHRISTINE s conversation. 
 
                            ZOE (THROUGH PHONES) 
                                        New? 
 
                          CHRISTINE (THROUGH PHONES) 
                                    Not really. 
 
                            DANNY (enjoying this) 
                      The great art of false talk. 
 
 



 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 15 

                                        ZOE 
          But very handy. And great for smuggling telexes 
                      out of the American embassy. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              Don t try and go one to one with me Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Why? Will you destroy my career, like you re 
                                destroying Tom s? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Is this... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Don t worry, the tape s developed a fault called 
                                        Danny. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                He s listening? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            He and I are getting sucked into this too. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  What s happening? What s Tom doing? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              He hasn t told you? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        No. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                At the hotel where you and Tom met... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Tom told you we met... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Oh yes he briefed us. 
 
                      CHRISTINE (does not like that) 
                                        Right. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Standing outside your hotel there was this guy. 
 
She takes photographs taken at Heathrow out of her bag. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 16 

          We observed him leading a surveillance team at 
        Heathrow this morning. They hooked onto a man whom 
                    we think was Michael Karharias. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              Well that s great. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Is it? We do have a database of C.I.A. Agents 
          active in this country. We are not total hicks. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  I know that... 
 
                              ZOE (interrupting) 
        And I can find no trace of him being one of yours. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        He s Cland-ops. His cover will be very deep. What 
                        is this, an interrogation? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            You bet. When the telex was sent to you by 
        mistake, why didn t you just turn it in to someone 
                                      senior? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I guess I love England. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Or an Englishman. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I don t have to put up with this any more, Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Oh yes you do. 
 
A look of horror from CHRISTINE. 
 
 
DANNY with wire in ear. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Hey hey... 
 
 
CHRISTINE and ZOE. 
 




 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 17 

                                        ZOE 
        I love this job. Getting involved in this is not 
                              going to wreck it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Little Ms Ambition are you? Does Tom know you re 
                                  leaning on me? 
 
                              ZOE (ignoring that) 
        Just give me something to confirm this story. Like 
                  the secure telex that started this. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      I can t. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Tom burnt it. 
 
 
TOM comes out of Thames House. DANNY follows him at a 
considerable distance. 
 
MONTAGE: STREETS OF LONDON - DAY 2. 1600 
 
DANNY follows TOM past the Houses of Parliament... 
 
Down onto the North Embankment... 
 
Then he is at the Aldwych... 
 
Then in Fleet Street... 
 
 
TOM is way ahead of DANNY, who is getting weary. 
 
                          DANNY (under his breath) 
                    Where the hell are we going, Tom? 
 
 
CLOSE UP: of the street sign:  Brick Lane E1.  
 
The street - leather shops, curry houses, food shops - is 
busy. 
 
DANNY - a cup of coffee in his hand - watches TOM go into a 
shop:  A to Z Leather.  It s door is at the side in a recess 
from the street. 
 
DANNY leans against a wall. 
 
 
DANNY waiting. 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 21 

 
TOM comes out of the shop. 
 
DANNY turns and goes into a curry house. 
 
 
DANNY coming out of the curry house eating a take-away. 
 
He sees that  A to Z Leather  is being shut up by an asian 
man. He pulls a metal shutter down across the window. The door 
has bars on it. 
 
 
DANNY crosses over to the shop. He goes into the recess. He 
waits until there is no one near then takes out a device - 
bright metal flashes, it s like an elaborate  wine waiter  
style corkscrew. The lock gives way and he goes into the shop 
quickly. 
 
 
DANNY is walking along quickly. He is speaking into his 
mobile. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    No Zoe, now. At the Landlord s. 
 
He waves out at a taxi. 
 
 
TOM passes the bus-stop. He glances at it. No one is standing 
there. 
 
 
HARRY leans against TOM s front door in despair. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Idiot. 
 
 
A step away from a platform. 
 
TOM speaks into a mobile phone. 
 
                                    TOM (Low) 
                    Mr. Thompson. Come for a drink. 
 
 
                            TOM (Into his phone) 
        Cannon Street station. There s a service area. Get 
                                    here now. 
 
He rings off. 
 
TOM unzips his hold-all. Inside the tracker device glows. He 
checks it then zips the bag up. 
 
 
Dark shadows. From TOM s POV: for a moment he sees ZIEGLER s 
face clearly then he disappears into the dark. 
 
TOM waits. 
 
Then he goes to the wall. There is a a chalk mark on the wall. 
TOM takes out a pair of latex gloves out of his hold-all and a 
tiny pen light. There is a small object stuck in the crack in 
the brick work. 
 
He unwraps the object. It is a small piece of card with a 
message written on it. By the dim light of his penlight it 
reads: 
 
 Our friend is warned off. Where s the meet?  
 
TOM takes a small camera from the holdall. He clips the 
message onto a small board. He puts the small board back into 
the hold all. 
 
He glances around. 
 
Then he takes one photograph of the message. Very quickly he 
closes the hold-all, wraps the message up and replaces it in 
the crack in the wall. 
 
He goes to a stairwell to get a better signal on his mobile. 
He rings. 
 
 
CHRISTINE, walking, answers the mobile phone. 
 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 32 

                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      It s me. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Wait. 
 
She looks around. She steps into a doorway. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      Christine? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              What do you want? 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
            Our friend from the hotel came to my flat. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Oh no. 
 
She is looking up and down the street. 
 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Look I need to tell you what I m doing. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    No don t. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              It s not safe. They could be scanning us. 
 
 
But CHRISTINE cannot take it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        No! I can t do this. Don t tell me anything, don t 
                              ask me anything... 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                ... Christine... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Just don t call. 
 
She rings off. She is in tears. 
 
 
The land is flat but curves to a sweeping horizon in the 
middle distance. A large field, bisected by a track, runs away 
from a dense copse to farm buildings: a farm outhouse, a big 
barn, orchards surrounding it. There is a large concrete water 
tower in the field. 
 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 37 

TOM, ZOE and DANNY are at the edge of the copse. 
 
They hand TOM s binoculars from one to another. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Nothing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Dead. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We ll wait  til nightfall then have a closer look. 
 
ZOE takes out a phone. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            Zoe don t ring in... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Hit me if you want to stop me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Just when we re on top of this... 
 
The mobile does not work. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            There s interference. 
 
DANNY takes out his phone and tries. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Let s leave it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Should work fine, there are masts on that tower. 
 
                                        TOM 
        There must be some kind of electronic interference 
                                        field. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Step by step we re getting pulled into this... 
 
                                        TOM 
          Look. The old tradecraft standard, Indian signs 
                                        yes? 
 
He snaps a twig off a bush. It s forked. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
          If anything happens to one of us leave this. It 
                                means  I m OK.  


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 38 

 
                              DANNY (With a sigh.) 
                                If you say so. 
 
 
HARRY and RUTH sit. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    I think Tom Quinn is on the blink. 
 
                                  RUTH (a beat) 
                                      Not Tom. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          He s been running an op on his own. For his own 
            purposes. And I m having nightmares about what 
                                    they are. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            What are you saying? He s acting against the 
                          interests of the service? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Harry, Tom Quinn is your brightest and best. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          It s the brightest and best who can go bad so 
          spectacularly. I saw it happen once before. To a 
                        golden young man in Ireland. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          What could possibly make Tom go on the blink? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    The moral ambiguities of the job? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                  I thought we all rather liked that. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Then maybe it s all consuming lust for a 
                                    Californian. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Yes lust can destroy the best of us. It nearly did 
                                        me. 
 
HARRY, a look at her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ah. 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 40 

 
                                        RUTH 
                          What are you going to do? 
 
Beat. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Ask for a warrant for Tom Quinn s arrest. 
 
RUTH is stunned. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        The police will pick him up on an anti-terrorism 
                                      charge. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        This is going to be so ugly. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    I know. Stand by me in this, Ruth. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Yes. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY are still in hiding by the side of the 
copse. 
 
Through TOM s binoculars the farm still looks shut up. The 
light is failing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Nothing s happening. I say we go back to the car, 
            out of range of the interference and report. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Alright. 
 
But just as they are about to move there is a sound in the 
copse behind them. 
 
Three masked men - in balaclavas - put guns to their heads. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
                Safe to move, now it s dark Mr. Quinn. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: He sees the landscape: the field, the farm and 
its orchards in the distance. Birds rising from the field. He 
whirls around and sees the trees, a man in a hood, a gun in 
his face and a blackness coming toward him... 
 
A hood is forced over his head. 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 41 

 
 
DANNY is dragged through the garishly lit farmyard into the 
barn. 
 
 
HARRY s face. 
 
The camera pulls back. 
 
Forensic teams in very pale blue suits are swarming around the 
yard. Two are carrying away the garden seat - it s wrapped in 
polythene. Radios crackle. The farm is being swarmed over. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Nothing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    No. It s been cleaned by experts. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Cleaning up. Yes, there s a lot of that to do. 
 
 
A powerful four-wheeled vehicle is making its way across a 
bleak, flat fen landscape. 
 
It pulls off the road, down an embankment into a hollow and 
comes to a stop. 
 
HERB ZIEGLER four men and a woman get out - it is the crew 
that was seen at Heathrow. 
 
They pull masks onto their faces. 
 
They go to the back of the vehicle and open it. 
 
A figure is bundled tightly in a large tarpaulin. 
 
It is TOM. He is gagged and blind-folded. 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 57 

 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          OK let s do the honours. 
 
They take out a needle. They hold TOM and inject him. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: 
 
Black. His blindfold is removed as he regains consciousness. 
 
His vision is distorted. He sees people with animal heads 
around him. He seems to see a sniper rifle floating towards 
him in a swirling, red-coloured mist. It is put into his 
hands. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      What... 
 
                                  ZIEGLER S VOICE 
            Haven t you seen a Gepard M1 12.7 Millimetre 
        rifle? Armour piercing rounds, uranium tipped. The 
                                sniper s dream. 
 
GENERAL POV: 
 
TOM, the group around him, sits in a sea of blue bells holding 
the rifle for a moment, staring at it. 
 
And then it is taken away. TOM realises the man who gave him 
the rifle is wearing surgical gloves. 
 
And TOM is hit in the face. He rolls over. 
 
They fall on him and bind his hands with plastic strip behind 
his back. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          And now we have our talk. 
 
TOM turns over and looks up at ZIEGLER. ZIEGLER removes his 
mask. The other four step back. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: 
 
Distorted. ZIEGLER s face seems strange in the swirling mist. 
 
                        ZIEGLER (cont d) (Laughing) 
            Don t you recognise me Tom? You know I didn t 
                think you would, you arrogant bastard. 
 
TOM blinks. 
 



 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 58 

                                        JOYCE 
                                  Hermann Joyce. 
 
TOM recognises him. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
                      Yeah. One of the living dead. 
 
He laughs. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        This... is this about Lisa? 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            Of course it s about Lisa. So be the polite 
                          Englishman, ask how she is. 
 
TOM is silent. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
        She is not good Tom. Not good at all. My daughter 
        is in a facility in Maine in a catatonic state of 
          withdrawal. She does not speak. She does not see. 
        She is not totally inert: There are times when she 
        begins to scream and she does not stop screaming 
            until the sedatives are injected into her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Lisa Joyce. 
 
FLASHBACK: TOM s memory. LISA JOYCE, laughing, long red curly 
hair, a whirling long dress, is dancing away from TOM laughing 
and mocking him. 
 
                                        LISA 
                            Tom Quinn! Tom Quinn! 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        TOM 
                I m not responsible for what happened. 
 
                                  JOYCE (Fury) 
        Of course you are responsible! You were students 
                  together, she was a friend of yours! 
 
                                        TOM 
          I had no idea what she had got herself mixed up 
                                        in. 
 
FLASHBACK: TOM s memory. CLOSE TO LISA. She is passionate, 
almost feverish. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 59 

                                        LISA 
          The Red Brigades are fighting a revolutionary 
                                    cause Tom. 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        But I came to you for help. You were a graduate, 
        already an M.I.5 officer, undercover at the L.S.E. 
          I couldn t talk to her, I was C.I.A She called me 
          a fascist. The usual father daughter thing at a 
        somewhat extreme level. I looked to you to get her 
                                        out. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I tried. 
 
FLASHBACK : TOM s memory. CLOSE TO LISA s tear-stained face. 
 
                                        LISA 
                                  They did this? 
 
                                    TOM (O.S.) 
                                    Yes Lisa. 
 
                                        LISA 
        But they are meant to be socialists. I can t bear 
                              it. It s horrible. 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        TOM 
                I warned her off them as you asked me. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            Don t be so disingenuous you little shit. You 
          recruited her! You turned her into a Five asset, 
            an untrained girl of nineteen. You sent her 
            undercover to penetrate a hard core European 
                                  anarchist cell. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It was her choice! 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        When I heard they d tortured her for five days, my 
                            life changed forever. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  It was her choice to go undercover. 
 




 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 60 

                                        JOYCE 
        You say that again and God so help me I will take 
                                  your eyes out. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Hermann Joyce, veteran agent of a four year tour 
          undercover in the Soviet Union, the spy s spy, an 
        unsung hero. I was flattered when you asked me to 
        help Lisa. And you were pleased when she agreed to 
      go undercover. She was coming back to you, she was 
                      taking up the family tradition. 
 
JOYCE kicks him. TOM turns away, breathing into the pain. He 
recovers. He tries a new tack. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                  But she couldn t do it, could she. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        She couldn t handle the fear you subjected her to. 
          Now she lives in a permanent state of terror. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What are you going to do with me? 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            You took everything from her, now I m taking 
        everything from you. See, I heard about this Iraqi 
          family, this notorious family. With a very big 
          grievance against your country and a very large 
        amount of money. I made myself available for this 
        hot job of work, SO hot I knew I d need a fall guy 
                to blame it on. And I thought of you. 
                                        (low) 
                              As I have so often. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  You set me up. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
      Oh yes, the mother of set ups. By now Harry thinks 
          you are the lowest thing on earth, a spy that 
            turns against his country. For money. I have 
          destroyed your very soul, Tom Quinn. You re like 
        Lisa now. In your personal hell. And that s just. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Just. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
          You have one other option. Become what I am. As 
        enemy of everything you believed in. You ll find 
                treason has a surprisingly sweet taste. 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 61 

 
TOM scoffs and looks away. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
        No don t be huffy, I know the service has got to 
        you. You ve got all the symptoms. You re diseased 
                              with disaffection. 
 
He gives him a card. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
            You only have to ring this number. It is an 
          answering machine on an empty floor in an empty 
          building. Just say  For Lisa  and say where you 
                          are. We ll pick you up. 
 
Looks around with satisfaction. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
            Well, I have to move on. The great moments of 
        pleasure pass so quickly into memory, do they not? 
                                  (Looks around) 
        Flat bit of England this. I m thinking of taking 
          in Ipswich. Is that an historic British town? 
 
A nod from JOYCE and one of the men hits TOM on the back of 
the head. 
 
He blacks out. 
 
 
TOM recovers consciousness. 
 
TOM feels his head. There is blood. His hand is shaking. He 
stands unsteadily. He checks his pockets. Empty. He feels his 
shirt pocket. He takes out JOYCE s card. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Ipswich. 
 
He scrambles up onto the road. He looks one way then another. 
It is a very minor road. There is no traffic. 
 
He walks down the road. 
 
 
TOM walking along the road. There is a cottage, low, it s 
garden run down its fence dilapidated. 
 




 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 62 

He approaches the front door. There is a knocker but no bell. 
He knocks. Nothing. He realises there is the sound of a 
television. 
 
He goes round the cottage to the back door. The kitchen window 
is not on the latch. He opens it. 
 
 
TOM is waiting a distance from the cottage. He has the small-
bore shot gun. Nothing for a moment then there is the sound of 
a car. It draws up a distance from the cottage. TOM crouches. 
 
Then HARRY, DANNY and ZOE get out of the car and walk towards 
the cottage. They push the front door. It is open. HARRY steps 
inside. 
 
 
TOM runs across marsh land towards the beach. Steep shingle 
sweeps down to a boiling sea. He stops. Stares down at the 
sea. 
 
Then, in a frenzy, he throws the gun aside, tears his shoes 
off and runs down the shingle. He dives into the sea and swims 
further and further out. 
 
 
GENERAL POV: ambulance and police are outside the cottage. 
HARRY is being taken to the ambulance on a stretcher. 
 
DANNY and ZOE watch. 
 
Closer. DANNY s mobile rings. He answers it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Where? 
 
 
Police are on the single beach. An area is taped off. 
 
CLOSER: DANNY and ZOE stand looking at TOM s shoes. 
 
ZOE walks away out of the cordon. She stops and crouches down. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              They re his shoes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                What have we done? Did we let him down? 
 
He lowers his head. ZOE speaks quietly, an eye on the police. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Danny. 
 



 73                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 74 

She indicates the shingle. There is a forked twig amongst the 
pebbles - the Indian sign agreed at the farmhouse. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  He walked. The old mucker walked... 
 
ZOE, a glance:  be quiet.  A policeman is approaching. She 
lifts the fork and folds her hand around it. 
 
                                      POLICEMAN 
                                Something there? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              No. Nothing at all. 
 
DANNY crouches beside ZOE. They look out to sea. 
 
END 




































 74