 
A tree lined ave. A detached house. CCTV cameras track HARRY s 
car out of driveway. 
 
Van appears and reverses up the now empty driveway - Masking 
tape covers it s number plates. 
 
 
Four balaclava d men - all four burst out of the van and rush 
up towards the house. 
 
 
CLOSE ON: KEYPAD entry system. JJ hacks into keypad. 
 
DOOR OPENS. 
 
 
HARRY stuck in traffic. He s exhausted. Hitting his horn. 
 
                                      RADIO V/O 
         It is ruining the chances of the young people of 
          this country from finding a true vocation. Guns 
        offer a spurious glamour, promising a short route 
      to riches. When in fact it is a short route to the 
                                      grave...  
 
HARRY sighs, goes to get something from the back seat. Double 
take. It ain t there! 
 
                        HARRY (Checking his watch) 
                                    Damn. DAMN! 
 
 
HARRY s car turns into his street. 
 
 
BILLY and KYLE are loading up van with TV and other electrical 
items. KYLE suddenly sees HARRY s car approaching. 
 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 3 

                                        KYLE 
                              Get in the van now. 
 
                                        BILLY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        KYLE 
                                      Do it. 
 
KYLE gets in and starts up the engine. 
 
 
JEAN-LUC is stood outside Thames House smoking a cigarette 
suavely. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
              Jean-Luc Goyon from the DGSE. An expert in 
            surveillance techniques and ex special forces. 
 
JEAN-LUC exhales confidently. A stunning woman walks past him. 
He smiles at her. She smiles back. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                                        Hello. 
 
JEAN-LUC flicks his cigarette butt flamboyantly into the 
gutter and strides into Thames House. 
 
 
TOM s mobile rings.. Split screen INTERPLAY with CHRISTINE. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          We still on for tonight? 
 
TOM. He d forgotten. Shit. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Sounds busy? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        The Chinese government s official plane requested 
        a fuel stopover in Heathrow. But then you already 
                                    know that. 
 
                                    TOM (lying) 
                        I d be lying if I said no. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I ve booked the opera. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          The Opera? That s for... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Tourists, I know. We could just do a Chinese if 
                                    you want. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      No. Opera s good. What is it? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            A lot of really big boned people singing very 
                                      loudly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I meant... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                It s Tosca... Meet you there at seven? 
 
Two kids with first date nerves, excited and nervous. 
 
                                    TOM (happy) 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 26 

                                        Seven. 
 
On TOM, immediately hangs up and calls... 
 
INTERPLAY: RUTH (on the Grid) and TOM. 
 
                            RUTH (answering phone) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The Chinese president s official plane has 
            requested a stopover. Can you get a passenger 
                                        list? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Who am I looking for? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Not sure. 
 
TOM hangs up and looks out at the council estate. 
 
 
JEAN-LUC approaches in a hurry, smoking a cigarette. 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (French) 
        I do not have long. Now tell me, do you think it 
                                  is possible? 
 
We don t see the face of BERTRAND not at first - we just hear 
him. 
 
                                BERTRAND (French) 
                      Yes. I can get in. And Durand? 
 
                                JEAN-LUC (French) 
          Whatever Durand has stolen, he is of no more use 
                              to us. Understand? 
 
JEAN-LUC heads off - as BERTRAND appears from the shadows. 
 
 
TOM stands by his car. Zoe sits in driver s seat. JJ walks 
over. Tears roll down his cheeks. Tom opens the door for him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I m sorry. 
 
JJ gets into car. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    You okay? 
 
                                          JJ 
                              Why wouldn t I be? 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 44 

Tom gets in and sits by JJ. Somber and totally ill at ease 
with what he is doing to JJ. 
 
 
JJ and TOM standing someway up street from HASTINGS  offices. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Soon as the car enters the gates you run to that 
            turnstile. The Guard will be watching the main 
                                        gates. 
 
A moment between them... 
 
                                          JJ 
                                        Cool? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Cool. 
 
 
TOM and JJ. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                                        Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Go ahead Zoe. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O) 
                  We re about to log into the system. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  We re ready. 
 
JJ looks nervous. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                                  Sixty seconds. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  On your mark. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                                        Set! 
 
CLOSE ON: TOM hits button on JJ s watch. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                                        Out. 
 
JJ nods. 
 
                                        TOM 
      If for any reason, anyone in there has a gun. Do - 
              not - run. Understand? JJ. Is that clear? 
 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 56 

                                          JJ 
                                        Cool. 
 
JJ holds out his hand in side grip - JJ does a few hand moves 
that TOM struggles to follow. 
 
                                    JJ (CONT'D) 
                            Need to work on that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Go. 
 
JJ strides down street - as JING HUI s car passes slowly by 
him - JJ just keeps walking towards turnstile - as guard in 
his hut presses gates open he doesn t see... 
 
ON JJ: Coolly swipes card. 
 
 
DANNY is watching the world outside but listening intently to 
JEAN-LUC as he talks on his mobile. 
 
                              JEAN-LUC (in French) 
        Isn t it nice when you are right about something. 
                      I think it s time for a visit. 
                                        (beat) 
                      Yes, sooner rather than later. 
 
JEAN-LUC hangs up the phone. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Everything OK? 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
                    My mother. She worries so much. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Yeah, can t think why. 
 
 
DANNY and JEAN-LUC wait anxiously for news of their men 
inside. Both are pretending they have nothing to hide. DANNY 
surreptitiously glances at his watch. JEAN-LUC catches him, 
but looks away. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        This must be pretty boring for you Jean-Luc. I bet 
          you ve been on more exciting ops than this one. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
        Oh, I don t know. It s not over yet. We both know 
                    that life is full of surprises. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t we just. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 59 

 
DANNY and JEAN-LUC still waiting. A beat. They smile at each 
other, keeping up the pretence. 
 
 
JEAN-LUC and TOM step out onto the pavement. 
 
                                      JEAN-LUC 
          It was never yours  in the first place. So you 
                                  lost nothing. 
 
TOM just looks at JEAN-LUC, giving nothing away. 
 
JEAN-LUC hails a taxi. Taxi pulls up and drives off - 
revealing JJ standing on other side of the street - holding 
DURAND s laptop. 
 
TOM strides over to him. 
 
 
JJ and TOM watch as the River Thames rolls by. JJ still 
holding the laptop. 
 
                                          JJ 
                      Seems I got something you want. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Seems you do. 
 
                                          JJ 
                          How much do you want it? 
 
                                        TOM 
          That depends on what you think that it s worth. 
 
                                          JJ 
                          I know what it s worth. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  No you don t. 
 
                                          JJ 
        Yeah I do. It s two grands worth of kit. This is 
          how it works. Kyle gets his fruit bowl, right. 
        Your boss doesn t press charges, and I get a grand 
                            and a half for this. 
 
JJ hands over laptop. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Is that all? 
 



 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 7 Page 66 

                                          JJ 
          What do you mean is that all? Fifteen hundred. 
                    Man, what planet do you live on? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I m offering you more than money. I m offering you 
                        a chance to change your life. 
 
                                          JJ 
        Maybe I don t want to change my life. This is my 
                                        life. 
 
                              TOM (re: lap top) 
        Today, you and I made a difference. We can offer 
        you an education, JJ, maybe even a job at the end 
                                      of it. 
 
                            JJ (Hands TOM laptop) 
        Na man. The fruit bowl. My brother walks and I ll 
                have the cash in twenties, no fifties. 
 
Tom hands JJ a card. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                It s up to you. 
 
                                  JJ (re card) 
                                  What s this? 
 
                                        TOM 
            My home number. Not many people have that. 
 
                                          JJ 
                        You wanna get out more, T. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I m working on it. 
 
Tom walks out of shot, leaving JJ to contemplate his options. 
JJ stares at the card. 
 
END 












 66