 
Dunlop tyres crashing through puddles. Two Range Rovers. 
 
Inside - Range Rover 1 is crammed with people in reflective 
jackets and protective suits. The atmosphere is apprehensive. 
Range Rovers swing into a tight bend off the road. 
 
Inside - Range Rover 2 holds DANNY and two cohorts. DANNY 
checks a beeping tracker device. They re close. 
 
Range Rover 1 - SAM fiddles with her face mask, securing it 
over her mouth. Another MI5 OFFICER gently pulls it down. 
 
                                    MI5 OFFICER 
                      Let them see friendly faces. 
 
 
Municipal North London building - you ve seen a million like 
it. 
 
SUBTITLE: COMMUNITY CENTRE, STOKE NEWINGTON, NORTH LONDON 
 
On their approach - Range Rovers split. One heading into front 
of building and the other to the rear. 
 
A fund-raiser has taken over a carpark. Stalls and exhibition 
stands. A banner reads;  I.T. Is For EVERYONE.  
 
A gaggle of clearly down-at-heel parents and kids listen to 
the PROJECT MANAGER holding court. 
 
                                  PROJECT MANAGER 
                          (mid speech/background) 
          - if we can get fully funded then we can have 
        portable I.T. centres like the one inside, up and 
        running in your area. So your kids have access to 
                                          - 
 
Range Rover 1 swings into car park. Officers spill out. One of 
the team films with a digi-cam. 
 
                                  PROJECT MANAGER 
                        Wh-What the hell s going on? 
 
                                    MI5 OFFICER 
          Didn t you get a letter from the Borough? Damn! 
            Clearance team. There s blue asbestos in this 
                                      building. 
 
Officers begin easing the stunned crowd back away from the 
building. An excited SAM glances to the community centre. 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 2 

 
By the centre: DANNY leads his two cohorts along the back 
wall, unseen. 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
        R.F. to Control; we re outside now. What s going 
                                on back there? 
 
                              TOM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                Fun and games... 
 
 
GORDON BLANEY freewheels into the street. Lean. Chiselled. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        So we have ourselves a vicious anarchist who just 
          happens to be handing out pamphlets yards from a 
                          computer hacking into MI5. 
 
                          BLANEY (V.O./OVER PHONE) 
        They got burnt today. I saw  em - They got burnt 
          today. I saw  em. - They got burnt today. I saw 
                                         em. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        We bug his home. His work. His entire life. If he 
        washes his hands I want to know if he s using hot 
      or cold. But oh so carefully people. He s our best 
                  lead and I don t want him bolting. 
 
A postman almost collides with BLANEY, forcing him to brake. 
He regards the postman with eyes of flint. Pedals on, watched 
by a man with a dog. The man mutters discreetly into his lapel 
mike. 
 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN MONTAGE: DANNY leading officers (including 
MALCOLM) across the playground. Lock picked in seconds. They 
are in. 
 
Team spread out. Installing bugging devices. 
 
CLASSROOM: DANNY places a listening device behind a map of the 
world. 
 
STAFF ROOM: MALCOLM places a tiny camera above the tea-making 
area. 
 
CORRIDOR: Three miniature directional mikes and a mini-cam 
embedded in the walls. Plastered in and painted. 
 
CORRIDOR: DANNY strides down the central conduit. His team 
filter out of other rooms to fall in step behind him. MALCOLM 
trots towards the main doors. 
 
                              DANNY (can t resist) 
                      No running in the corridors. 
 
 
DANNY - the last into the back of the rusty grey van. Pulls 
away just as the caretaker poodles in on his moped. 
 
 
Kids streaming in. Chasing, laughing, swapping make-up tips 
and love-bites. ZOE with her books clutched to her chest as 
she joins them - back to school. She notices a gauche 13yr old 
kid (PETER ELLIS) jostled by a couple of boys. 
 
Across the road - BT engineers work around their striped tent. 
TOM parks his car. 
 
                                      ENGINEER 
        All right guv nor? Crackin  old mornin ain t it - 
 
                            TOM (peeved/officious) 
                      Is your supervisor in there? 
 
TOM pushes into the tent - 
 
 
End bell. ZOE watches the kids screaming home. BLANEY walks 
towards her. She doesn t see him. His face is rigid - set. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                  They want to - 
 
                                    ZOE (jumps) 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 24 

                                      Oh! God! 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                              Sorry. I made you - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    It s okay. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        I was just going to say, they want to learn. Most 
                  of them. They just don t know how. 
 
PETER ELLIS stumbles as one of the rough lads shoves him in 
the back in passing. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
      Of course there s some - like that new kid Peter - 
            won t connect with anything. Tough first day? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Daunting. Could do with a drink actually. Look - 
        there s a nice bar on the High Street - I could do 
                          with some inside advice. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          From an old lag you mean? Sorry, I have to stay 
                                        late. 
 
He turns away abruptly - heads back into school leaving ZOE 
disappointed. 
 
 
TOM steps out of the mansion flats  main door. The flat door-
buzzer bleeps for attention. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
          Naked Girl to Sexy Beast. Do you read me, over? 
 
He smirks. Doesn t respond. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
        Suggest immediate recall for intercourse. Repeat, 
                        urgent intercourse required. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
          Uhh - I take it you re unfamiliar with the word 
                                       covert . 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
                              Don t go to work. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
            I have to save the world. What sort of person 
          would I be if I just didn t show? Besides, I d 
                        jeopardise my pension plan. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
                    I could write you a doctor s note. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
                    I m terminating this connection. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
          The mood is fading. And it will be your solemn 
                      obligation to regain it later. 
 
Grinning from ear to ear, TOM sets off. 
 
 
Last kids leaving after another day. TOM walks into the 
playground dressed in overalls. 
 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM heads towards the gates. 
 
                            MALCOLM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                    Tom - Blaney s heading for I.T. 
 
TOM nods once in confirmation. 
 
 
BLANEY cycles out of the school and past the Telecom tent. 
Vanishes into the night. TOM steps out of the tent. 
 
 
ZOE follows BLANEY s direction. Cuts off down the side of the 
school - clearly an out-of-bounds area. 
 
 
TOM risks exposure. Leaning on the gates he casts his macro-
binoculars across the grounds. Suddenly picks out ZOE 
approaching the maintenance shed. 
 
 
The shed door is open. Inside it is dark. A water-tank gurgles 
like a living thing. ZOE peers into the gloom. There is 
movement in there. She has no idea that BLANEY has appeared 
behind her. 
 
 
TOM watches it all through his binocs. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                          Blaney s right behind her 
 
                            MALCOLM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                    Forget her cover, Tom. Warn her. 
 
TOM waits. 
 
 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 40 

ZOE only notices BLANEY when he walks past her and stands in 
the shed doorway, holding a can of coke. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                    Come on son. I got you a drink. 
 
                        PETER (sullen, from inside) 
                                      Go away. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Ah come on, you can t stay in there, mate. It s 
                dangerous. You can talk to me you know. 
 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM watching her through binocs. 
 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: PETER can be glimpsed in the shadows - blazer 
torn, a bruise above his eye. ZOE clocks TOM in the distance. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Peter - you don t have to talk about it if you 
                                  don t want to. 
 
                                        PETER 
                        I never even looked at  em. 
 
Still looking across at TOM, ZOE shakes her head once. 
 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM reads the signal. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Tom, we re being recalled for the Red Cry op. 
                        What s the deal out there? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          She s okay. Pulling back. 
 
He returns to the tent. 
 
 
ZOE joins BLANEY. 
 
                                        PETER 
            I keep me head down. Then they don t see you. 
                                      Sometimes. 
 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 41 

                                        BLANEY 
                    But this time they went for you. 
 
                                        PETER 
                              It s safe in here. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                      Peter - 
 
                                        PETER 
          My dad knows karate - self-defence - all that. 
          He s gonna come down here and Jason Sweeny and 
          that lot ll wish they were dead! My dad ll sort 
                                        it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Peter, we ve got a problem. If Mr Blaney and I are 
        caught out here when we should be teaching, we ll 
                            be for the high-jump. 
 
PETER and BLANEY both look surprised. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You know, I need this job. I m not going back to 
            the old one. You ever plucked chickens for a 
                        living? There s no up-side. 
 
                            PETER (grinning more) 
                  Yeah - all right - don t go on miss. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        So how about we both bunk off early and I ll run 
                                    you home. 
 
PETER edges out of the shed. BLANEY closes the shed door and 
throws the bolt. He casts a look to ZOE - nice job. 
 
 
BRYONY ELLIS slips the front door open an inch on PETER and 
ZOE. Small, neat, hair tied tight. PETER hugs her. She strokes 
his hair absentmindedly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Mrs Ellis, I m Jane Graham, Peter s English 
        teacher. There was some bother at school. Shall I 
                          come in and we can talk - 
 
                                        BRYONY 
                            It s not a good time. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              What about Peter s father? Is he at home? 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 42 

 
                                        PETER 
                      My dad works long hours miss. 
 
                                        BRYONY 
          I have to get on. Thanks for bringing him home. 
 
She closes the door softly in ZOE s face. With an inward 
shrug, ZOE returns to her car. Her mobile sings for attention. 
 
                                  ZOE (mobile) 
          Hi, Auntie Doris? How are you? I m on my way. 
 
She quickens her pace, jumping into the car. 
 
 
Playground teeming with laughing, jostling kids. ZOE and TOM 
cross the quadrangle. TOM carries a box-like device (a 
scintillation counter). As soon as he switches it on, the 
needle twitches to the top of the scale. The box crackles 
angrily. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Oh shit - shit - 
 
He swings 360, trying to get a source. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    How high? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Sixty - seventy gamms. Radioactive as hell. 
 
They take in the laughing pupils around them - sounds of play 
intermingled with the ugly crackle of the counter. 
 
                                TOM (into radio) 
        Danny, the school s a radioactive hotzone. We need 
          to evac a minimum of two clicks. Pull everyone 
                          out. Everyone. At once! 
 
 
MALCOLM and ANTON scrabble from the tent and leg it. 
 
 
                                TOM (into radio) 



 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 53 

        Prep portable decontamination units for upwards of 
                                  four hundred. 
 
ZOE shoots him a terrified glance. 
 
 
Public rushing through the street. Panic. Disorder. In the 
melee,  PETER ELLIS  slips unnoticed into the BT tent. 
 
 
Deserted playground seen from on-high. Three figures in 
radiation suits advance across the quadrangle. 
 
 
The radiation boys have encircled the maintenance shed. Their 
counters growl off the scale. One of the team emerges with a 
cylindrical device. The device is clearly electronic. 
 
 
ZOE pulls up outside. Is this madness? She works the lock. 
Enters. 
 
 
THIRD SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM outside the house. Watches his team 
emerge from another car. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
        Zoe - the kid s dad was killed and he blames us. 
            He s in a psychotic state. Go slow with him. 
 
 
TOM and his team creep into the house. 
 
 
GORDON BLANEY throws his rucksack over his shoulder and looks 
back at his house one last time before getting into a taxi. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                              What about Blaney? 
 
 
ZOE stands across the road, watching pupils return. TOM joins 
her. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s been relocated with our apologies. I think he 
                              gets book tokens. 
                                        (beat) 
            Amazing. We spend billions against the drug 
          cartels, the Iraqis - yet we re almost brought 
            down by one pathologically traumatized child 
                                      genius. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          All the things that Victor knew and that little 
          boy absorbed it. It s a wonder his head didn t 
                                      explode. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      It did. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Blaney asked me what was real for me. The games, 
          the role playing. We don t get any anchorage in 
          our lives. Something goes wrong and where do we 
                      run - except inside ourselves. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I drink slammers and that helps. Time to go. 
 
ZOE catches sight of CLOE. The girl smiles across at her. 
 
                                  ZOE (softly) 
                              Don t think of me. 
 
CLOE s POV: ZOE watching her from across the street. A van 
passes between them and when it is gone - so has ZOE. Vanished 
into thin air. 
 
