 
The Kremlin. A line of limousines sweeping across the Square 
at speed and through the gates. 
 
CAPTION: MOSCOW 
 
 
The camera zooms towards a block of flats then to one of the 
windows then through them into... 
 
 
A YOUNG MAN is walking along the street. Two HEAVY MEN in 
faded jeans, leather jackets over tracksuit tops stop him. He 
backs away to run but the Heavies grab him and wrestle him to 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 2 

the ground. 
 
                                NEWSREADER (V.O.) 
        ...met for their long awaited economic summit. It 
        was announced that twenty billion dollars of aid 
        to the Russian Federation has been granted by the 
                          International Monetary Fund. 
 
 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 3 

The YOUNG MAN is being dragged up the staircase. He clings to 
a handrail. One of the heavies kicks his hand away. 
 
 
A general view of London s financial district. 
 
ZOOM down to a narrow street. 
 
 
A grand-looking door. Beside it on a pillar a brass plate 
reads  Bowman & Co Bankers.  
 
SIR RICHARD stands looking at the plate. His face is ashen. He 
looks up. 
 
Above him the building of the bank looms. 
 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 4 

He rubs the brass plate with his sleeve. A doorman, dressed in 
uniform, has been eyeing the head of the Bank s behaviour. Is 
the Chairman losing it? He approaches SIR RICHARD. 
 
                                    SIR RICHARD 
          Don t worry about the Daimler Giles, I ll walk. 
 
SIR RICHARD sets off down the street. 
 
 
GENERAL SHOT of the Bank. 
 
CAPTION:  London: The Bank Of England.  
 
SIR RICHARD walks into shot. He hesitates before the Bank and 
sighs. 
 
 
TOM and HARRY walking fast. 
 
                                        TOM 
          What will they want us to do next, deploy our 
                officers as traffic wardens? It stinks. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I agree. I ve known Dicky Bowman for years, never 
                              seen him so worried. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We could put someone into the bank undercover. 
                    Find out what they re all up to. 
 



 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 9 

                                        HARRY 
                                  Excellent idea. 
 
                          TOM (Did not expect that) 
                                      Really? 
 
                                  HARRY (Shrugs) 
                            Why not? We are spies. 
 
 
General POV of the heath. 
 
CAPTION: Hampstead Heath, London. 
 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 18 

The camera moves in on a crime scene. There are Police 
cordons, canvas barricades around a group of trees, policemen 
everywhere. 
 
TOM approaches, getting his arms through his overalls. 
 
JACK BRAMPTON, a Special Branch man similarly clad, 
approaches. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Jack. 
 
                                        JACK 
          Tom. It s definitely your man, and he s a mess. 
 
TOM pulls his mask on and follows the Special Branch Officer 
past the canvas barricades. 
 
He stands aghast. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              They crucified him? 
 
                                        JACK 
                                    Looks like. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I want Special Branch on to all the papers, all 
          the media. No press, no news, absolutely none. 
 
                                        JACK 
                                        OK. 
 
They are looking. A full shot of the crucified JOHN LIGHTWOOD. 
He hangs in greeny shadow nailed to a tree, wearing just his 
boxer shorts. His arms are straight out, hands nailed at the 
wrists, arms tied at the elbows. 
 
                                    TOM (O.S.) 
              Someone sending a warning.  Mess with us we 
                                  crucify you.  
 
 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 21 

Street. TIM and DANNY push open a fire exit door. TIM is well 
the worse for wear, a bottle of champagne in one hand, in the 
other a six pack of Guinness cans. 
 
 
DANNY and TIM are sitting on a bench. He is dribbling 
Champagne into an opened tin of Guinness. It is frothing. 
 
                                        TIM 
                                      Thing is. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Yeah. What is? 
 
                                        TIM 
                                      Pleasure. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 
 
                                        TIM 
          I mean...Abusing your mind and your body, that s a 
                              kind of art form. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  John Lightwood good at that was he? 
 
                                        TIM 
          Johnny...an artist of the good time. Couldn t say 
              no to nothing. He had a big thing going. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    What thing? 
 
                                        TIM 
        Don t know if I ought a say. Are you... one of the 
                              great and reckless? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Try me. 
 
                        TIM (Drunk conspiratorial.) 
        John Lightwood was helping dirty money through the 
                                        bank. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Tasty. 
 
                                        TIM 
        Very. Money laundering these days? If you ve got 
          the bottle, why not? This is the mother of bear 
            markets. Everything s in pieces, a butterfly 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 22 

        flutters in Tokyo, millions are wiped off London, 
          New York exchanges...firms being blown up for 
        fiddling billions...In times like these, you can t 
        make money the right side of the line, go over it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    And John was well over the line? 
 
                                        TIM 
                          All the way to Lugarno. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Lugarno Switzerland? That s where the money was 
                                        going? 
 
                                        TIM 
                        To the Banco Co-operativo. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Whose name was... 
                                      (Slur.) 
                              ...the account in? 
 
                                        TIM 
                                      No idea. 
                            (Suddenly perceptive.) 
                        You re not as pissed as me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Wouldn t say that. 
 
DANNY grins and drinks. 
 
 
TOM comes down the steps. He goes along the street. 
 
And VICKY is driving her green Morgan sports car along side 
him. She wears retro, 1930s driving gloves - big sleeves. She 
calls out to him. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                Hey spooky man! 
 
TOM looks around. She stops the car and he goes over to her. 
 
                                        TOM 
        For Godsake Vicky I said I d come to your place... 
 
                                        VICKY 
          Thought I d come over to Spook House, save time. 
                            Get in. Mystery tour! 
 
He climbs into the car. 
 
 
Sunshine. The Morgan is parked a way off. TOM and VICKY are 
locked in an embrace above the lock. They finish, smiling at 
each other. They look down into the lock. The water is pouring 
into it. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                Ever thought of jumping into the river? 
 
                                        TOM 
          You have any idea of the trouble suicides cause 
                    the authorities at the lock here? 
 
                                        VICKY 
              What a machine man s thought. Machine man! 
 
She begins to tickle him. He laughs, they wrestle. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Stop it stop it! 
 
They stop. 
 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 27 

                                        VICKY 
        I ve thought of jumping. Not into a river. But out 
                    of my life, out of the country. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Giving up your career? 
 
                                        VICKY 
            You know how grotty the NHS has become? They 
        reckon it would take billions to fix it. Where s 
                    that kind of money coming from? 
 
                                        TOM 
                         Spying  can be grotty too. 
 
                                        VICKY 
        Then let s bugger off, go round the world together 
          in the car. I can heal people along the way you 
            can use whatever your skills are, break into 
                                      places... 
                        (Suddenly she s not joking.) 
                        I mean it. Run away with me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              That is just so... 
 
His mobile rings. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                  Just so what? 
 
TOM stands and walks away listening to his mobile. POV goes 
with him. 
 
                                  VICKY (cont d) 
                                  Just so what? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I ll be there. 
 
TOM snaps the mobile shut. The car engine is revving. He turns 
and sees VICKY driving away from him over the grass. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                Vicky I ve got to get back to town... 
 
She raises a finger to him over her head. 
 
TOM is furious. 
 
SHOT: TOM left alone on the lock. He looks down into the 
violent cascade of the water in the lock. 
 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 28 

 
By the Burghers of Calais Statue. 
 




 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 37 

RUTH and TOM sitting on a bench. Rodin s  Burghers of Calais  
statue is behind them. This scene is very painful for both of 
them. They do not look at each other. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        I suppose you have evidence? 
 
                                        TOM 
                Computer traffic from your station, yes. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                I coded it good. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Colin uncoded it good. You betrayed us. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            MI5 is a Government Department. I only told 
          Downing Street what you re doing. The Government 
                can t betray itself to itself, can it? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Don t be naive, Ruth. You know what s going on 
                      here. GCHQ planted you on us. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Tom, I so much wanted to join MI5. To be a real 
        spy. They said I could have the transfer if, very 
            occasionally, I reported what you were doing. I 
              mean this is the first time I ve done it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Reported directly to Amanda Roke? 
 
She nods. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        The Prime Minister and the Chancellor have their 
        own fiefdoms. She goes between the two of them. In 
                a way she s the most powerful person in 
                                      Government. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well now you re a classic double agent. How does 
                               real spying  feel? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            The horrible thing is it s rather exciting. 
 
TOM does not like that remark. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Ruth I ve got two officers in the field at high 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 38 

        risk. Do you want to get Danny or Zoe crucified on 
                                Hampstead Heath? 
 
                              RUTH (Distressed.) 
                                      Don t... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I ll have to tell Harry. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                What will he do? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  He ll probably send you to Narnia. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  What s Narnia? 
 
                                        TOM 
          A collection of damp nisson huts in the Scottish 
          Highlands. Full of alcoholics and busted officers 
                          shuffling outdated files. 
 
                          RUTH (A touch of anger.) 
          I m so bloody good at this job, you know I am. 
                                    (A beat.) 
                            Well that s that then. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Of course double agents can be turned. 
 
They look at each other. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      Oh Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You re on probation. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Oh thank you... 
 
But TOM has left the bench. She looks at pigeons fighting over 
crumbs at her feet. Her hands are trembling. She stands 
abruptly causing the pigeons to rise. 
 
 
ZOE is sitting by a little outside table. It s a tiny square, 
an old fashioned pub. 
 
And CARLO sits down beside her. They kiss. 
 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 39 

                                        CARLO 
          Look...no. It is not a thing I should have done. 
                  As a banker, I am ashamed of myself. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Why? What have you done? 
 
                                        CARLO 
                          I ve booked a hotel room. 
 
They are looking at each other. She is near laughing. He 
smiles realising she s not offended. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Well. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                You don t mind. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              I love it. Is it... 
 
                                        CARLO 
              Round the corner, Park Lane. You are not 
                        thinking...Greasy Italian man. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Oh yes I am. 
 
They laugh. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                  Shall we...It s the Royal Paramount. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Posh. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                          Of course. But if you... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        No no, it s a lovely idea. 
 
Stands and kisses him. 
 
 
Establishing. 
 
 
Tables in the open air in a little square. ZOE and CARLO are 
having a drink. 
 
ZOE is all too aware of TOM sitting at another table. 
 
CARLO leans into her. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                    So. We walk round to the hotel? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Lunch time s nearly over, I have to get back... 
 
                                        CARLO 
                      But lunchtime was your idea... 
 
TOM is putting sunglasses on and looking the other way. 
 
 
ZOE. She has to tell him. It comes out in blurts. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                          Zoe, have I offended you? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    I don t want to see you any more. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                        What? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            It s because of work. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                        Work. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You re a banker. We re doing some work for a bank. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                        So? 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 49 

 
                                        ZOE 
                  So!...There s a conflict of interest. 
 
                                        CARLO 
          Dear God you re talking like some middle-aged 
                                      bureaucrat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I can t have my work compromised, I m sorry. I m 
          ambitious and I l. .. Love my work. It s a thing 
                                I ve got, right? 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                  Don t do this. 
 
But she can stand it no longer. She stands and half runs, half 
stumbles away. 
 
CLOSE ON: her face, streaming with tears. He sits behind her, 
stunned. 
 
 
CARLO is disconsolate. TOM sits down next to him, replacing 
ZOE on the bench. 
 
A man in a raincoat - it s a sunny day - sits on the bench, 
the other side of CARLO. 
 
Nothing happens for a moment. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Mr Carlo Franceschini. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                        What? 
                      (Looks from one to the other.) 
                                        Who... 
 
                                        TOM 
                  We work for a Government Department. 
 
                                        CARLO 
          Why should I believe that? You could be common 
                                      muggers... 
 
The restraining hand on him again. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Your father, Alberto Franceschini, was born in 
        Milan, your mother Magherita, maiden name Pollini, 
            is Italian Swiss. Because of your mother s 
          nationality you hold both a Swiss and an Italian 
                                      passport. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                              What is this about? 
 
                                        TOM 
          One billion dollars was stolen from a British 
        Bank. It was placed in an account in the bank you 
                work for. We want the name of its user. 
 
CARLO laughs. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                How about the secret name of God too? 
 




 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 51 

                                        TOM 
        We believe the men who stole this money are major 
                              criminals. They kill. 
 
                                        CARLO 
            Look, for a bank, money is morally neutral. 
 
                                  TOM (Closer) 
        Mr Franceschini, think carefully of the situation 
                                you are in here. 
 
                                        CARLO 
        The situation is I am sitting as a free man on a 
                        bench in a free country... 
 
He stops, staring. TOM is holding a wad of photographs out in 
front of him. He flicks through them. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Do you wish your wife to get copies in the post? 
          Or we could e mail them to her. And her father. 
 
LONG SHOT: the three men on the bench. 
 
BACK TO them. CARLO is grey-faced. 
 
                                        CARLO 
              You realise that for the Swiss a banker s 
          confidence is as binding as that of a doctor or a 
                                      priest? 
 
TOM waits. 
 
                                  CARLO (cont d) 
              The account is held in the name of Victor 
                                      Shvitkoy. 
 
He stands and walks away. This time the man in a raincoat does 
not stop him. 
 
 
The MI5 surveillance van is parked outside. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
            Good Zoe, go after them. Is Danny s tracker 
                                      working? 
 
 
DANNY and MAXI come out of the bar happy, arms around each 
other. They hail a taxi and are getting into it. 
 
GO TO: ZOE a distance away. 
 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 61 

                                        ZOE 
                They re on their way. Black London Cab. 
 
 
The black cab draws up. DANNY and MAXI get out. 
 
 
Seen from over the roof of the observation van, DANNY - bottle 
in hand - and MAXI come out and hail a taxi. They get in and 
the cab drives off. 
 
 
The cab draws up on a busy road. A hinterland of estate high 
rises and galleries stretches away. 
 
DANNY and MAXI get out of the cab. 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 4 Page 66 

 
                                        DANNY 
                              Up and coming area? 
 
                                        MAXI 
                              You will be amazed. 
 
She turns and kisses him passionately. DANNY responds. 
 
 
DANNY and MAXI come up a staircase then along the landing. 
 
They come to a door. 
 
GO TO DANNY S POV. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Done the place up have you? 
 
                                        MAXI 
                            It s a real bolt hole. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Great! 
 
He looks nervously up and down the landing then over the edge 
of the balustrade. 
 
MAXI has the door open. She steps back. Inside is dark. DANNY 
has to decide...He goes into the flat. 
 
Still from his POV: he is immediately overpowered. He sees a 
black hood coming toward him. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                        Bastards bastard bastards... 
 
Silence. 
 
BLACKOUT SCREEN. 
 
Then short fearful breaths. 
 
And... 
 
 
From DANNY s POV. He is walking past policemen and women, 
through a cordon, towards TOM, MALCOLM and COLIN. ZOE appears, 
running towards him. She embraces him. 
 
She says something. TOM says something... 
 
But DANNY is deaf. There is only a muffled sound. 
 
