 
TOM QUINN - dressed in full British Army khaki - BANG! BANG!! 
BANG!!! - crouches behind a wall as the sound of gunfire 
explodes overhead. 
 
Beside TOM, a young soldier - BRYANT, early 20 s. Both men 
carrying standard issue SA 80 rifles. 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                                  Bloody Hell! 
 


 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 5 

                                        TOM 
                    They re flanking us to the left. 
 
Next to BRYANT, there s a gap in the wall. Another RATTLE OF 
GUNFIRE as an unseen enemy lays fire down the gap. TOM points 
beyond it. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
            Cross the gap. I m right behind you. Fire and 
              manoeuvre, fire and manoeuvre - Ready? Go! 
 
BRYANT takes a breath, starts to move to his left towards the 
new cover - 
 
The rapid rattle of more gunfire - 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                                      Shit! - 
 
He raises his rifle - preparing to return fire - puts it to 
his left shoulder - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Wait! 
 
And as BRYANT steps into the open, weapon aimed - 
 
TOM lunges at him. Slaps the barrel of BRYANT s rifle 
downwards - 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                        No. 
 
A whistle sounds - 
 
                                  CURTIS (O.S.) 
                                      Ceasefire! 
 
CAPTION: Battle Training Ranges, Stonefield Barracks, near 
London. 
 
And those of you who know about these things will recognise 
the distinctive yellow Blank Firing Attachments on the rifle 
barrel that indicates... they re not using live ammo. 
 
TOM and BRYANT turn to look at MAJOR SAM CURTIS - striding 
towards them. 
 
TOM salutes CURTIS; BRYANT stands to attention holding his 
rifle. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                                Everyone alright? 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 6 

 
                                        TOM 
                                    Yes, sir. 
 
CURTIS holds out his hand. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                      Weapon. 
 
BRYANT clears the breech on his rifle, thumbs on the safety 
catch, hands it over. 
 
CURTIS takes the weapon, holds it at arms length. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                              Never. Ever. Forget. 
 
He squeezes the trigger. A burst of semi-automatic fire - 
The rifles cocking-handle jerks backwards and forwards, 
rapidly ejecting a stream of metal bullet casings. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
          The SA 80 individual weapon cannot, under any 
          circumstances, be fired from the left shoulder. Do 
          so - the cocking-handle will break your jaw and 
          you ll get a faceful of red hot metal casings. 
                    Even when you re firing blanks. 
 
He safeties the weapon, hands it TOM. 
 
                        CURTIS (CONT D) (to BRYANT) 
        I m afraid that s your standard issue British Army 
                          rifle. Learn to love it. 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                              Yes, Major Curtis. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          Not your fault. You didn t design the bastard. 
 
He turns to TOM. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            David, end ex. Return your men to barracks. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Sir. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              S ant Major Baker! 
 
BAKER - a tough-looking N.C.O. in his late 30 s. 
 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 7 

                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                      Stand the rest of the men down. 
 
 
A countryside A-road. Parked in the lay-by, ZOE s car parked. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                              I don t trust Woods. 
 
 
Establishing shot. 
 
 
TOM, BRYANT, WOODS and three other squaddies. All climbing 
into NBC overalls, BAKER watching, as they listen to - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                Close-quarter battle; escape and evasion; 
                resistance to interrogation - we will be 
          practising the basic drills until we can do them 
          in the dark, under fire and on our chin-straps. 
                                (looks at BAKER) 
            Distribute the equipment please, Lieutenant. 
 
BAKER opens a kitbag. Inside - S10 Respirator gas-masks. He 
starts removing them as CURTIS continues - 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        Today we are going to stick you in that building - 
 
A small, featureless breezeblock construction. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        - and we are going to pump tear gas inside. By the 
        end of the day I want you in your Noddy suits and 
          respirators within nine seconds of a gas alert. 
 
Everyone listening carefully to CURTIS. So no-one notices as 
TOM takes a couple of gas masks from BAKER and - 
 
Click. Opens a lock-knife. Makes a swift cut on the strap of 
one of the gas-masks. Leaves it hanging by a small thread of 
rubber. Passes the mask on to BRYANT. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 17 

                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            If you don t, you ll end up in tears because 
          S ant-Major Baker will put his toe so far up your 
        arse at high speed that you will be able to chew 
                            his toenails for him. 
 
A gentle ripple of amusement passes through the unit. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
          War is shit. Anyone who tells you otherwise has 
        never been in one. Train hard, fight easy. Train 
                        easy, fight hard - and die. 
 
TOM watches the unit hang on CURTIS  words. 
 
 
Outside the N.B.C. training building. BRYANT is just about 
recovered. CURTIS pats him on the shoulder, reassuring. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        You ll be OK. I inhaled the equivalent of a duty-
        free carton of B & H first time I tried to put on 
                                    a respirator. 
                                  (turns to TOM) 
                                Good job, David. 
 
                                        TOM 
              With all due respect, Major - the Company 
                        quartermaster should be shot. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                Accidents happen. 
 
                                        TOM 
              That s not good enough. Our equipment s a 
        disgrace. Rifles spitting cartridges in your face, 
                gas-masks falling apart in your hands - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Thank you, David. Your comments are noted. 
 
TOM trying to push CURTIS  buttons... 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Something should be done about it. 
 
CURTIS can t let a subordinate talk to him this way. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                  That s enough, Lieutenant. Right    
                                      (to all) 
                              - we do it again. 
 
 
SAM waves a phone at ZOE. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          CIA are looking for Tom. 
 
ZOE punches a button on her phone, picks up the call. 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 27 

 
                                        ZOE 
        Hi. It s Zoe. Tom s on operation. I m the acting 
                                  CIA liaison. 
 
INTERCUT WITH CHRISTINE - on the street, on her mobile. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  I thought he d been a bit... quiet. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Is there anything I can do? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      No, no. 
                                      (a beat) 
                          How long s he away for? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Oh... you know... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Quite. Well... if you speak to him - tell him I 
                                    said hello. 
 
 
Pleasant looking detached house in the Home Counties. SFX: 
Doorbell. 
 
 
MR. GETTY (60 s) opens the front door to a face we might 
recognise from his earlier headshots: 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                    Mr. Getty? 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
                                        Yes? 
 
                          WALLACE (friendly smile) 
        I m an old friend of David s. We served in Belfast 
          together. Promised him I d stop by and say hello 
                  if I was ever in the neighbourhood. 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
                Oh dear. I m afraid David isn t here. 
 
WALLACE glances over the MR. GETTY s shoulder. A framed 
portrait on a hallway table beside the front door. MR. GETTY, 
a woman in her 60 s... and TOM. In Army uniform. 
 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 28 

                                      WALLACE 
                  That s a shame. Not overseas is he? 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
        No, he s on exercise in the U.K. If you d like to 
            leave me your details I ll pass them along. 
 
 
TOM turns into a quiet corner of the barracks, where as he 
expected - 
 
DANNY is waiting. In Army uniform, Sergeant s stripes. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Reassuring to know back-up plans actually work. My 
              mobile got damaged in a training exercise. 
          Everything s fine. Brought the transfer orders I 
                                        hope? 
 
He pulls out a sheaf of paperwork. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I have them here. Lieutenant David Getty is being 
                            sent back to Belfast. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Good. I didn t get into this job to spy on my own 
        side. I regard Curtis as a colleague. We all have 
                the same job - to protect this country. 
 
                TOM (CONT D) (he checks the paperwork) 
            He s is something of a loose cannon, lonely, 
        rather pleased with himself, and pissed off about 
          a bunch of Army issues, but none of those things 
          constitute treason. The MOD were hoping I d find 
            something dirty around Curtis but I m afraid 
                    they re going to be disappointed. 
                      (hands the paper back to DANNY) 
        He s a first class soldier - a threat only to the 
              enemies of this nation and the postmen of 
                                      Whitehall. 
 
DANNY moves away... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          The paperwork will clear by the end of the day, 
        no-one will ever know that you weren t for real. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Story of my life. 
 
 
TOM approaches the platoon barracks. WOODS, BAKER, PARKS, 
three other SQUADDIES hanging around outside. CURTIS is there 
with WALLACE. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                        Morning, David. Sleep well? 
 
Two Army trucks parked nearby, engines running. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            What I got of it, yes. 
 
The soldiers are all carrying SA 80 s... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Lucky you. We were up all night. Had a whole 
                            platoon to interrogate. 
 
And TOM is aware - 
 
The men are encircling him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Uh-huh... 
 
He s surrounded. CURTIS stands right in front of him. 
 



 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 43 

                                        CURTIS 
                  Have you enjoyed your posting here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I ve had considerably worse. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        Makes a change from sleeping with Russian spies or 
        spying on Libyan trade delegations, or whatever it 
        is you people do to justify your existence these 
                                        days. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I don t - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          Corporal Woods finally... decided... where his 
                                  loyalties lie. 
 
TOM glances at WOODS. Who smirks. 
 
                                        WOODS 
        Sorry. Unlike you, the Major can spare me a court-
                                      martial. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          You people screwed up your chance to defend the 
        West. Now it s down to us - the Armies - to sort 
                                      it out. 
                                      (a beat) 
        So you ll forgive me if I m a bit pissed off that 
        M.I.5 investigated a distinguished Army officer at 
            a time when espionage efforts could be better 
                            concentrated elsewhere. 
 
Another beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I was only following my orders. I m sure you 
                                  understand that. 
 
CURTIS studies him for a long moment. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                Apology accepted. 
 
He smiles. A beat. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                  What d you think I was up to anyway? 
 
TOM glances at WOODS. 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 44 

                                        TOM 
          We received information. That you were going to 
                lead your men into industrial action. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              Industrial action? 
 
CURTIS laughs. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                  Do I look like a socialist to you? 
 
WALLACE... joining in CURTIS  amusement... 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        Sitting around refusing to do what I m trained to 
                        do ain t exactly my style. 
 
And - the laughter just left his eyes. 
 
Behind TOM - the sound of a rifle being cocked.  
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                            In the truck, please. 
 
And as the SOLDIERS start climbing into the trucks, TOM is 
plasticuffed and nudged at gunpoint into the back of Army 
Truck One, CURTIS alongside. 
 
 
ARMY TRUCK ONE and TWO parked on the road, maybe 100 yards 
apart. TOM and CURTIS in the rear of Army Truck One, looking 
back at the second truck. 
 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 46 

In the distance - the Stick convoy approaching Army Truck Two. 
Nuclear Authority POLICE VEHICLE leading. 
 
And as TOM watches - 
 
WALLACE and three other SQUADDIES jump from the rear of Army 
Truck Two - 
 
Spread out across the road - 
 
And raise SA80 s - aiming at the oncoming Police Vehicle. 
 
The Police Vehicle slews to a halt at the side of the road. 
WALLACE and his men advance, weapons trained on the men 
inside.  
 
                                      WALLACE 
                Show me your hands! Show me your hands! 
 
TWO NUCLEAR AUTHORITY POLICEMEN in front of the Police Vehicle 
- raise their hands in surrender. 
 
WALLACE - waves the Stick truck on through - towards Army 
Truck One 
 
INSIDE TRUCK ONE - TOM glances at CURTIS. Who smiles. 
 
                              CURTIS (reassuring) 
                  Don t worry. No-one will get hurt. 
 
The Stick truck approaching them - 
 
Behind it - POLICE VEHICLE TWO. WALLACE and one other SQUADDIE 
step into the road again - aim their rifles. 
 
Police Vehicle Two screeches to a halt - 
 
WALLACE and his men disarm its occupants, gather their 
weapons. Leave the POLICEMEN sitting in their vehicles. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                      Go! Go! 
 
And as his men pile into the back of Army Truck Two - WALLACE 
raises his rifle - 
 
Shoots on the tires on both POLICE VEHICLES. 
 
INSIDE TRUCK ONE - CURTIS bangs on the driver s cabin. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                        Go! 
 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 47 

And Army truck One pulls out in front of the Stick Truck. 
 
WALLACE jumps into the back of Army Truck Two - which follows 
behind the Stick. 
 
All pull away. 
 
The Stick has a new escort. 
 
 
The sticks convoy cruising towards an industrial depot. 
 
TWO SECURITY CARDS at the entrance to the Depot. 
 
But not for long. TWO MEN jump out of Army Truck One - march 
them off at gunpoint. Wave the Stick convoy on through. 
 
T.B.C. - aerial shot from the Thames revealing - an OIL 
STORAGE DEPOT. Sequence of shots as the Stick moves through 
the Depot - 
 
And grinds to a halt beside a row of HUGE OIL STORAGE VATS. 
 
CURTIS jumps down from Army Truck One, TOM following. 
 
Army Truck Two starts unloading its men. And - 
 
DANNY steps down at gunpoint, hands also palsti-cuffed and 
tied behind his back. 
 
                    On TOM: he knows he s fucked up. 
 
                          CURTIS (to TOM re: DANNY) 
                        Friend of yours I believe. 
 
TOM looks to DANNY - Shit. Sorry. 
 
SCOBEY steps out of the Stick driver cabin, hands CURTIS the 
radio that links to Polestar. And the Grid. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 48 

                                        SCOBEY 
                              It s all yours, sir. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                  Nice to be working with you again. 
                            (to WALLACE and PARKS) 
                    Secure the perimeter, gentlemen. 
 
WALLACE and PARKS start directing the four other squaddies, 
including WOODS, into position. Everyone locking and loading. 
BAKER opens a briefcase. Inside - a laptop computer and 
satellite phone. Standard war reporter style kit for sending 
video reports from the frontline. He starts hooking it up to a 
video-camera. 
 
                          CURTIS (CONT D) (to TOM) 
        I know you re not a bad man, David - or whatever 
              your name is. But you see - neither am I. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What are you planning to do? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                        I just want to make a point. 
 
 
BAKER hoists the vid-camera, gives CURTIS a thumbs-up. 
 
                                        BAKER 
                        Ready when you are, Major. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                  Start filming. 
 
CURTIS speaks into The Stick radio. 
 
 
CURTIS watching TOM s reaction as he speaks... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I have control of the nuclear transportation known 
          to you as Stick One. You will see from your GPS 
                        tracker our exact location - 
 
 
                                CURTIS (a beat) 
          Almost five hundred British soldiers have died 
            since the Gulf War. Cause of death: Gulf War 
          Syndrome. The authorities expect men to take the 
        same risks again and again. With inferior weapons, 
          minimal life insurance and laughable salaries. 
 
 
CURTIS nods at WOODS - who opens a canvas kit-bag. 
 
                              CURTIS (into radio) 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 50 

          I have been campaigning in every legitimate way 
        possible for years, but Whitehall refuses to take 
              me seriously. So now it s come to this. 
 
He reaches into WOODS  kit-bag. Pulls out - a brick of plastic 
explosive. A detonator already pushed into it. 
 
TOM and DANNY - this is bad. 
 
BAKER filming all this. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            Unless my terms are agreed in the next thirty 
          minutes I shall be transmitting a videotape from 
        my location via sat-phone to every major Western 
            broadcaster. I don t think I... er... flatter 
          myself that it will be headline news the second 
          they realise who I am. Especially when they see 
        that I have surrounded a truckload of irradiated 
          uranium with fifty pounds of plastic explosive. 
 
 
CURTIS slaps the plastic explosive onto the side of an oil 
vat. BAKER filming. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Then south east England will be twinned with 
          Chernobyl. Someone better get back to me quick. 
 
A timer on the explosive. CURTIS pushes a button - 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                      The clock s started ticking. 
 
He tosses the radio to BAKER. 
 
 
TOM and DANNY held at gunpoint. CURTIS grins. 
 



 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 52 

                                        CURTIS 
              And they thought I was a pain in the arse 
                                      before... 
 
                                  DANNY (to TOM) 
                You said he was organising a petition. 
 
TOM s face - I know, I know... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I am. But it didn t work last year and I doubt it 
        will make any difference this year. So I ve gone 
                                  with Plan B. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                You won t do it. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                  You think...? 
                                      (a beat) 
        What choice do I have? Frankly, your presence here 
          pretty much makes my case for me. It seems that 
        third world and Eastern bloc dictators are not the 
            only powers who monitor and infiltrate their 
                                      military. 
                                      (a beat) 
                  Get the camera again, S ant Major. 
 
 
Black-clad COUNTER-TERRORIST types moving into position around 
the depot. Find some cover, set up their firing positions. 
 
 
WALLACE watching the COUNTER-TERRORIST TEAM through field 
glasses.  
 
                              WALLACE (to CURTIS) 
            Counter-terrorist team are in position, Major. 
 
CURTIS glances in the direction WALLACE is looking. And throws 
a casual salute at the SNIPERS. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            I don t think we need trouble ourselves about 
                                      that... 
 
 
TOM and DANNY still at gunpoint as BAKER films - he s close on 
TOM. CURTIS standing alongside, addressing the camera. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          This is the face of the 21st century spy, the 
        secret face of the most paranoid government in the 
        West. Although... I believe this man understands 
                            what I m trying to do. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I understand why you are doing it. But not this 
                                        way. 
 
 
CURTIS looks towards the SNIPER positions. 
 
He spreads his arms - standing in plain sight - the red laser 
dot centred on his chest... 
 
Confident in his omnipotence. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        There isn t a British soldier alive who d take a 
                                    shot at me. 
 
And - 
 
BANG. 
 
CURTIS takes a bullet in the chest. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        NO!!! 
 
T.B.C. - aerial shot. CURTIS dead on the ground. 
 
