 
Caption: Customs and Excise Surveillance Operation. Kent 
coastline. 
 
Establishing shot of a surveillance van parked in a lane, 
flanked by hedgerow, just off a country road surrounded by 
fields. 
 
 
TOM hops over stile and into field out of sight. Starts 
walking up into the darkness and speaking into mobile. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Status report from Braveheart to control. Still 
          awaiting the Chala Cartel shipment. Will confirm 
        when has arrived. My ETA at the Dover safe house 
        is 0200 hours. Prepare an interrogation room for 
                                        me. 
 
Split Screen: TOM still recording this message while walking 
around in the darkness. 
 
 
Split Screen: A group of armed men are moving stealthily 
around the van. Gesture to each other silently, then slide 
door of van open. Three of them leap in while the others stand 
guard. 
 
 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 3 

Split screen: TOM oblivious to unfolding events looks at 
mobile. 2259. He presses buttons on his mobile and looks out 
into the darkness. 
 
He then looks down at mobile and sees that it is 2300. Clicks 
SEND. 
 
 
TOM walking back down path to van. TOM slides open van door... 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Hey, guys, it s freezing out there. 
 
He steps back in shock. We don t see into the van but we know 
from TOM s reaction - he s gasping for breath - that it must 
contain a scene of unspeakable horror. He stumbles round to 
the front of the van. The driver s dead eyes stare blankly 
from the window. He steps back again hyperventilating, fumbles 
for mobile, drops it, stumbles back up the track trying to get 
a signal. 
 
TITLES 
 
 
RAFA emerges and hails a cab. 
 
                          VOICE IN HEADPHONE (V.O.) 



 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 8 

            We ve got movement. Rafa s leaving his hotel. 
 
We see RAFA s cab pull away. 
 
 
RAFA s cab pulls up in salubrious looking neighbourhood. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                  Do you have the target, Bravo Three? 
 
                          VOICE IN HEADPHONE (V.O.) 
                Affirmative. Target arriving Maida Vale. 
 
RAFA gets out of the cab and enter a smart looking town house. 
 
 
Split Screen: POV from surveillance van. Front door of house 
opens. RAFA comes out accompanied by MARIELA. They pause on 
the street for a while talking and then part company. 
 
 
Split Screen MARIELA walking down the street. Behind her MI5 
Officer Bravo three speaking into cuff links. Bravo three 
crosses road. MARIELA passes a young person handing out 
leaflets who then turns and follows her. A Bentley pulls up 
alongside MARIELA and the back door opens. Click and 
freezeframe on image of MARIELA getting into the Bentley. 
 
 
Split Screen: a group of binmen in private company jackets are 
removing rubbish from outside MARIELA s house. 
 
 
SAM is standing looking at the cards in newsagent window. 
Something catches her eye, her face is transformed. She 
scrabbles in her handbag for her mobile, punches in a number 
from one of the cards in the window. 
 
                                        SAM 
              Hello? Yes, it s about the palm-top you re 
        advertising? I d like to know a little more about 
          its games capacity. Does it have Giraffe? And 
                                      Hardball? 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 12 

                                        (beat) 
                  I understand. Yes, I understand. When? 
                                  (checks watch) 
                                        OK. 
 
She puts her mobile back in the bag. Walks away. Something 
very fishy here. 
 
 
TOM gets called on his mobile. He walks and listens. 
 
                                        TOM 
        OK, where are they now? Good. Zoe knows to sit by 
                                    the window? 
                              (clicks mobile shut) 
                                        Right. 
 
He hangs up. 
 
 
ZOE and MARIELA chat outside the gym, waiting. ZOE is doing 
all the talking. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Those were my two New Year resolutions - get fit 
            and learn to dance salsa before I go with my 
                          brother to South America. 
 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 24 

                                      MARIELA 
                    How are you doing with the salsa? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Not as well as my brother. 
                                  (checks watch) 
            Oh this could take ages. I m going to grab a 
                          coffee, do you want one? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                          It s OK. I ll wait here. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Oh come on. I ll buy you a cake. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        A cake? You want us to waste all the time we spend 
                                        here? 
 
But something s flickering in MARIELA. She s responding to 
human contact. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Hey you could eat a whole bakery and not worry. 
          Please? I want to talk to a real Latin American. 
                                        (beat) 
        My salsa teacher s a PE instructor from Stockport 
                                  and it shows. 
 
MARIELA laughs, hesitates and then... 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  Come on then. 
                                      (jokingly) 
                                  But no cake. 
 
 
ZOE waiting in a car. 
 
                              VOICE IN HEADPHONE 
              Target One has been dropped by Vaughan. In 
          possession of briefcase. You have twenty seconds. 
 
ZOE gets out of car. MARIELA comes into view with briefcase. 
ZOE on other side of the road with gym kit. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Mariela! 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                      Oh hi, Katy. Been to the gym? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Step class. I m shattered. The instructor s a 
                  total Nazi. Shall we grab a coffee? 
 
MARIELA looks nervously at bag but she s clearly tempted. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                      I can t. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Oh come on. Big news. Jack s just split up from 
                                his girlfriend. 
 
MARIELA hesitates. But  Jack  swings it for her. 
 
                    ZOE (CONT D) (mock imploringly) 
                                      Please. 
 
MARIELA laughs and ZOE grabs her arm. 
 
 
DANNY and CAMILO. They are out of uniform. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Why didn t you tell me? 
 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 34 

                                        CAMILO 
                                  Tell you what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            About the arms deal. You went to a meeting in 
          which the exchange of cocaine for missiles was 
                                      discussed. 
                                    (mimics him) 
                           I m just the messenger . 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        OK, next time they ask me to go to a meeting I ll 
          tell them that I can t because I m working for 
                                        you. 
                                        (beat) 
        They wanted me there because I have to go to the 
                                      exchange. 
 
                      DANNY (through gritted teeth) 
                          You should have told me. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        Why should I? I put my life at risk and all you re 
            offering in return is not to kill my mother? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Who said anything about that? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
          So what does  very nasty things can happen in 
        prison  mean? You called her a whore. You like to 
          think that you re different from us right, that 
                          we re the violent ones. 
 
He laughs bitterly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Well, I m not hanging out in your country 
          threatening to shoot down planes if I don t get 
                              what I want am I? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        You don t need to. Maybe you should find out what 
                      you are doing in my country. 
                                        (beat) 
              I do what you tell me to do. Nothing more. 
 
DANNY s mobile rings. 
 
 
ZOE is stood waiting, face set hard. The crowds of shoppers 
bustle around her. Through the crowds a figure approaches her. 
ZOE s face as she recognises... 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                Hello, stranger. 
 
ZOE composes herself. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Tessa. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        We never had a chance to say goodbye properly did 
                                      we, Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    I m not a big one for farewells. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                            Oh I rather like them. 
                                        (beat) 
        I was most disappointed by the decision you made, 
                Zoe. I thought you were a lot cleverer. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Cleverer? Or greedier? 
 
                                        TESSA 
          More clear sighted at least. Look at who you re 
        working with. Harry - well there are a few things 
          I could tell you about his grace under pressure. 
        Tom - talented but a time-bomb. Danny - not quite 
        an empty vessel but he does rather rattle if you 
                                    shake him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Well I guess every team has its strengths and its 
          weaknesses. But it must be very different being 
                            completely on your own. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh, it has advantages. It s nice not to be a slave 
        to whatever new identity they choose to give you, 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 41 

        see who you like without people watching you. You 
                      know what a bind that can be. 
 
She smiles benignly at ZOE as if she knows everything about 
her and her personal life. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
                            How is everybody? Tom? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Tom s fine. 
 
                                        TESSA 
            Really? I would have thought Harry would have 
          taken rather a dim view of interagency liasons. 
          And then this Colombian operation started very 
                                      messily. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          If you want to discuss Tom then I suggest you 
                organise your next rendezvous with him. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                          OK. Let s discuss Rafa. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Rafa? 
 
TESSA smiles in a  let s not play games  kind of way. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Back in the eighties, a group of Libyan special 
          operatives were in Colombia directing a guerilla 
          training mission around Chala. Rafa and his men 
          took exception to their presence, there was a 
          falling out and it all ended very unpleasantly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            You re working for the Libyans. Makes sense. 
 
                                  TESSA (laughs) 
          I prefer to see them as part of my substantial 
                                client portfolio. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Your clients could surely just take Rafa out. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh, Zoe, Libya is no longer a pariah state. They 
                    don t want to tread on any toes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              So what s the deal? 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 42 

 
                                        TESSA 
        You re not doing very well trying to turn Mariela 
            Hernandez. My clients can help you with some 
        rather explosive information that will facilitate 
        your task. In return, all they require is that you 
        allow them to dispose of Rafa at the end. Rather 
          good terms given the mess you ve made of this. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                I ll have to get back to you on that. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                              Don t take too long. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
        I love this time of day. The light s changing and 
        you can just feel the energy of the city. Do you 
                                    feel that? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Yes but I think we ll use the phone from now on. I 
        have to get back. I need to speak to my team about 
                                    your offer. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        All right. Get back to me when you ve OK d it with 
                                  Tom and Harry. 
 
ZOE turns to leave and then turns back again. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Tessa? I d do it again. You know that don t you? 
          It was a very painful thing to have to do but I 
        have never doubted that I did the right thing when 
                                  I reported you. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Ah, Zoe, you re so like me in some ways. Always 
                            wanting the last word. 
 
ZOE opens her mouth. Then shuts it again, shaking her head she 
smiles. TESSA also smiles, a moment of almost affection 
between them. Then TESSA turns and disappears, the late 
afternoon sun is dropping. ZOE stares at TESSA s back as she 
swallowed up by the crowds and then walks away. 
 
 
MARIELA is walking and we see the familiar Bentley turn the 
corner and cruise along beside her. The door opens. 
 
 
ZOE is standing in the spot where she met TESSA. She looks 
into the crowd and waits. A woman hurries passed, jostling 
her, forcing a large envelope into ZOE s hands. ZOE scans the 
crowd, but the woman has disappeared. She looks down at the 
envelope that she has been  handed . 
 
 
DANNY and CAMILO - out of uniform. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
              You re letting them get the weapons? Why? 
 
DANNY holds up a tiny tracking device. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Yours is not to reason why, Camilo. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                                      Oh no... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Oh yes. You simply attach this. It couldn t be 
                                      easier. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                                      No way. 
 
DANNY produces a brown envelope from his pocket. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            These come with new identities in the United 
            States and an early parole hearing for your 
              mother. What other options have you got? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
              I was thinking of forming a panpipe band? 
 
DANNY laughs. CAMILO reaches for the envelope but DANNY puts 
it back in his pocket. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 48 

 
TESSA speaking on mobile. We intercut with VAUGHAN who takes 
the call while speed walking beside his Bentley in a jogging 
suit. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Ross Vaughan? You don t know who I am but I have 
              information you might find very valuable. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                    Who are you? What s this about? 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 61 

                                        TESSA 
              There s a little songbird in your ranks. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                I don t know what you re talking about. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh I think you do. Lets meet somewhere discreet. 
 
 
RAFA is standing waiting on a street corner. A familiar 
Bentley crawls slowly alongside him. RAFA gets in. 
 
                                        RAFA 
      So what is this? I thought you didn t like meeting 
                    me. That s what Mariela is for. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                That s what I need to discuss with you. 
                                        (beat) 
        I m afraid that your little bird has been singing 
                                      to MI5. 
 
With these words VAUGHAN knows that he is sentencing MARIELA 
to death. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                  Mariela? She would never betray me. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                      Are you quite sure about that? 
 
 
Two men of Mediterranean appearance (Libyans) approach the 
car. We catch a glimpse of a garrotte in one of their hands, 
its handles flashing in the sunlight. We see the men release 
the central locking system and get in the back. There s a 
moments quiet. Suddenly a foot smashes through the back 
window. RAFA has been killed. The Libyans get out of the car 
and coolly walk away. 
 
