 
CAPTION: Birmingham 
 
A mosque. There is a sign: 'Parkmount Mosque And Community 
Centre'. Parked next to the mosque amongst several other 
parked cars, an inconspicuous van. 
 
 
From the van the camera moves up to reveal the barred and 
shuttered windows on the first floor of the Mosque. 
 
 
The camera looks directly down on the surveillance van. A 
large object falls past and lands on the roof of the van. Too 
late we realise it s JOHNNY. The impact shatters the windows 
and buckles the roof. 
 
- NIGHT 1. 1922 
 
JOHNNY lying on the now crumpled roof. Still conscious, he is 
shivering and sobbing. His bare feet are lacerated and 
bleeding. 
 
TITLE SEQUENCE 
 
 
CAPTION: Channel Tunnel: French Coast. 
 



 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 5 

STOCK FOOTAGE: Shot of train entering tunnel. 
 
 
IBHN clings to the freight train. The noise is terrifying. 
 
 
STOCK FOOTAGE: Train exiting tunnel. 
 
 
IBHN rolls out from under the train. Behind him, Security 
Guards can be seen in the background. IBHN crawls under a 
fence, looks behind him, then starts to move away. 
 
 
Amidst the fast walking crowd on the pavement IBHN KHALDUN, 
strides ahead steadily, exhausted but determined, a stick in 
one hand - like an Old Testament prophet in the rush hour. 
 
 
IBHN walks up to the entrance of New Scotland Yard. He props 
the stick against a pillar. He runs his hands through his hair 
then goes up to the officer on duty. 
 
 
Armed officers on duty. They look at him. 
 
                              IBHN (Good English.) 
                  I want to speak to Special Branch. 
 
He obviously smells. 
 
                          VINNY (to the other PC) 
        Would you please invite this gentleman to leave? 
 
                                        IBHN 
            I wish to speak to a Special Branch officer! 
 
Another PC comes up behind IBHN. 
 
                                        VINNY 
                        Could you please leave sir? 
 
                                        IBHN 
            I am not in this country to tolerate fools! 
 
                                          PC 



 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 6 

                                  Thank you Sir. 
 
The PC puts a hand on IBHN. Who in a swift movement - the 
reflex of an exasperated man - hits the PC with a fast punch 
in the lower stomach. 
 
The PC goes down with a gasp. 
 
An alarm is sounding. VINNY points his gun as IBHN s head. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        I am a secret Agent from North Africa. I can be of 
                              great use to you... 
 
 
TOM has just driven through big gates which are closing behind 
him. His car stops on a big gravel drive before a vast red 
brick building. The windows are barred and on the lower floor 
blocked by internal cream shutters. The building looks as if 
it has been blinded. 
 
TOM gets out of his car. 
 
 
A street of small dark brick houses. TOM stands on a pavement. 
He looks one way then another. Children are playing on a 
pavement. 
 
He crosses quickly to a front door. He rings a door bell. 
 
Nothing happens. 
 
He steps back and looks at the house. Then he realises the 
children are no longer playing in the street. 
 
The empty street is watching him. He looks up at a gauze 
curtained window. He sees them move. 
 
1956 
 
TOM stands looking up at the windows of the first floor. They 
have venetian blinds. He presses the bell of a door beside the 
laundrette. Above the bell there is a small sign:  Phillips 
Security.  
 
Nothing. Then the door opens. It s TESSA PHILLIPS. They stare 
at each other. 
 
 
A group of school aged children, English, very badly behaved - 
fingers up to the statue, shouts of  Poof! Poof!  - is going 
past the statue. 
 
IBHN sits sadly on a bench. TOM joins him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Mr. Muhammad Ibhn Khaldun? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                        (Card between his fingers.) 
              Mr. John Steadman? From the Home Office? 
 
A smile. He knows the name is fake. They watch the children 
passing Peter Pan. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
              They don t know who Peter Pan is, do they? 
 
SHOT OF Peter Pan. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Why should they? 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 28 

 
                                        IBHN 
                  Peter is part of English heritage. 
 
                                        TOM 
          A story about a boy who didn t want to grow up? 
 
                                        IBHN 
            No, a story about being safe. In an eternal 
        garden. Where you can play in tree houses, all day 
                                        long. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    That s how you see this country? 
 
IBHN laughs. 
 
                                        IBHN 
            How do you see mine? Dusky maidens in desert 
                tents, offering dates on gold plates? 
 
TOM does not respond to his humour. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You have something to offer us. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                  No you have something to offer me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                      A passport. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We can t just dole out British Passports like 
                                      sweets. 
 
                                        IBHN 
          Why not? Why have an immigration policy at all? 
        Let anyone live in the world where they want to. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Shall we return to reality? 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Certainly. There is a terrorist organisation in my 
          country. It is called the G.A.J. The Group for 
            Algerian Jihad. Which is financing extremist 
                              groups in Britain. 
 
TOM, affecting gruffness. 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 29 

 
                                        TOM 
            We know about the G.A.J. Is that all you re 
                                      offering? 
 
                                        IBHN 
        There is a gentleman in a mosque in Birmingham who 
          has links with the G.A.J. His name is Mohammed 
                                      Rachid. 
 
 
Very close to a radio in an ear. 
 
PULL BACK sharply. It s HARRY s ear. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Hell s bells. 
 
 
They sit still, not talking, not moving, a slight smile on 
IBHN s lips. 
 
Then TOM stands abruptly. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Wait here. Someone else will talk to you. 
 
He walks away. 
 
A beat. 
 
The school children run back screaming - ya dissing me! don t 
ya! Don t ya! - and pass. 
 
And HARRY sits down on the bench. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We are prepared to offer you a British passport, 
                    yes. As much as is in our power. 
 
They look at each other. There is a flicker of possible 
friendship between them. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        You know that if you agree to be an agent, run by 
                        us, there is no going back. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                  Please please. 
 



 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 30 

                                        HARRY 
                You will have to agree to a debriefing. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                              Bring on your lions. 
 
                  HARRY (Taken aback by the phrase.) 
                                        Right. 
 
 
The dirty white of second rate hotels in what were once grand 
houses- pillored porticos, Georgian windows. The hotels have 
grandiose names. MALCOLM, in raincoat and with a plastic 
shopping bag is walking along the pavement. He turns into  The 
Royal Rose Hotel.  
 
 
IBHN and TOM are walking together. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    So. Now do I sing for my supper? 
 
                                        TOM 
        The Parkmount Mosque in Birmingham. We want you to 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 33 

        go in undercover and infiltrate Mohammed Rachid s 
                                        group. 
 
                                IBHN (Startled.) 
          But I told you, Rachid is financed by Algerian 
                    extremists. They killed my family. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I m sorry, this is a difficult thing to ask. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    Why me, a stranger from abroad? 
 
                                        TOM 
        We don t have the personnel of the right culture. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                You mean colour. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
They look at each other for a moment. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        What is concerning us is that they are preparing 
                                suicide bombers. 
 
IBHN is shocked. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                In Birmingham? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Oh yes. 
 
                              IBHN (To himself.) 
                Welcome, England, to the world at large. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We need to know everything they re doing. Fast. 
                        You may have to take risks. 
 
IBHN looks out over the park - family scenes on the grass. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                My family are dead. Now I ll help you. 
 
A MONTAGE OF SCENES: 
 
 
TOM goes into the Department. 
 
 
High GENERAL POV shot of the campus. The distinctive clock 
tower is prominent. The camera sleeps over the skyline them 
zooms in on a corner of the campus. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                                How s he doing? 
 
                                  DANNY (V.O.) 
                                Making friends. 
 
CUT TO 
 
DANNY with binoculars high up at a window in a University 
building. 
 
CUT BACK TO: 
The zooming camera. It s POV sweeps towards an area of big 
dustbins. 
 
 
POV: Through DANNY s glasses. 
 
IBHN KHALDUN and a fellow WORKER, Asian, have pulled up a 
trolley. On the trolley there are plastic dustbins collected 
from around the campus. They are emptying them into big round 
steel bins and talking. 
 
 
Men in best clothes are meeting, shaking hands, talking. IBHN 
and the WORKER are amongst them. 
 
                                    IBHN (V.O.) 
          I detest the way the Western world has demonised 
        what is a perfectly ordinary, friendly, everyday 
          thing, prayers at a mosque. I m not a religious 
        man, but it still means much to me, the communal 
              warmth, wherever you are in the world... 
 
 
The University clock tower is visible. 
 
TOM and IBHN sit on a bench by the canal. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          So what are you saying? 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 41 

 
                                        IBHN 
        It s a religious community of poor people. I could 
                        be anywhere in the world. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Have you seen Azzam and Rachid? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                      Oh yes. 
 
 
                                        IBHN 
              I have a present for you. I got from the 
          University bookshop. Pleased to see it on sale. 
 



 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 42 

                                        TOM 
                      Don t hang around the students! 
 
IBHN smiles and gives him a book in a Waterstone s bag. TOM 
does not open it. 
 
 
VICKY is making her way toward the entrance. She answers her 
phone. 
 
CUT between her and TOM in Birmingham. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Vicky. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                  Ah, weird Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Look I m away for a few days. 
 
                                        VICKY 
              Poor you. Well ring me when you re back. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                        Good. 
 
She is smiling. He does not know what to say. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Well great. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                        I ve got to go to work now. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Oh right. 
 
She rings off and goes towards the A & E with confident 
strides. He looks at his mobile for a moment then walks 
towards the student block. 
 
CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM: 
 
He goes into the student block and opens the door of a room. 
 
 
As TOM did before him, IBHN stands on the other side of the 
street to FAZUL AZZAM s house. 
 
Children are playing. 
 
He crosses the street. He knocks on the door of AZZAM s house. 
He looks up. A gauze curtain moves. 
 
He waits. 
 
The door opens. 
 
A young woman (AMINAH) - very nervous - looks at him. 
 
 
TOM and IBHN on the bench together again. 
 
TOM in a bad mood. 
 
                                        TOM 
        So when at last you got to meet Azzam, you talked 
                      about Twelfth Century Europe? 
 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 45 

                                        IBHN 
          He s an old man, a fine old man, but dying. The 
                              daughter is the key. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  The daughter? 
 
CUT BACK TO: 
 
 
Establisher. 
 
 
IBHN is walking along the canal path. He looks one way then 
the other. 
 
Then he throws the pen, the matchbox and the box of chocolates 
into the water. He walks on. 
 
 
TOM approaches the bench where they meet. He stops. He 
expected IBHN to be there. 
 
He looks around, walks away, taking out his mobile. 
 
                            TOM (into his mobile) 
                                      No show. 
 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 52 

 
TOM s student room. TOM. DANNY and ZOE in track suits. They 
are eating crisps, hamburgers, drinking diet cokes and 
sprites, spread out on the coffee table - student food. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Khaldun has now missed three meets with me. The 
                hostel he s staying at hasn t seen him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      No calls, no messages at all? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      So we re blind, they could be arming a kid to blow 
              the centre of Birmingham apart right now. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Quite. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
            I m coming out in hives on this one. What if 
                    Khaldun s not what he says he is? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What do you mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
        What if he s been an extremist all along? What if 
        he s been very clever, what if he s a bomb master 
                    come to co-ordinate the attack? 
 
                                        DANNY 
      If you think that we ve got to send Special Forces 
                                    in - now. 
 
                                        TOM 
          The trouble is I don t know. I just can t read 
                                        him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Danny s right we can t wait. 
 
A beat. ZOE and DANNY are looking at TOM waiting for his 
decision. 
 




 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 53 

                                        TOM 
              I m going to give him twenty-four hours. 
 
 
 
TOM now stands with officers before the house. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I ll speak to him alone. 
 
 
TOM comes out of the house. 
 
From inside there is the sound of AZZAM shouting and AMINAH 
screaming. A policeman makes a move to go in. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    No. Wait. 
 
The noise stops. 
 
A moment. 
 
Then FAZUL AZZAM opens the front door. He calls out. 
 
                                        AZZAM 
                                  Mr. Anderson! 
 
TOM goes to him quickly. There are tears streaming down his 
face. 
 
                                  AZZAM (cont d) 
                                Warfield Street. 
 
But TOM has already turned to run toward the police. 
 
 
ABU runs out of the derelict house, up the stairs and onto the 
street. He runs across the road, towards a children s nursery, 
where children can be seen playing inside. 
 



 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 64 

ABU approaches the nursery gate. It is padlocked, but he 
manages to ease his way through. 
 
 
ABU runs into the middle of the teachers and laughing 
children. He stops suddenly and turns, opening his raincoat. 
 
                ABU (shouting to everyone around him) 
          This is my first battle, God is in every move I 
                                        make. 
 
The teachers freeze, as the children continue playing, 
oblivious. 
 
One teacher stands and walks towards ABU, frightened, but 
unsure what he is intending to do. 
 
IBHN suddenly appears at the fence but he can t get in. 
 
                                        IBHN 
              The boy is armed, stay back! He s armed! 
 
We see panic in the teachers  eyes, but ABU reacts quickly and 
runs through a hole in the fence into a large deserted 
playground. 
 
 
IBHN runs along the side of the fence on the road, trying to 
find a way to get to ABU, but he is obstructed by the fleeing 
children. 
 
ABU stumbles as he runs and in the distance he sees police 
cars arriving. 
 
IBHN seizes his opportunity, darts through a large hole in the 
fence and blocks ABU s path. 
 
GO TO NEW POV: 
 
TOM, DANNY, ZOE and the police have arrived. TOM gets out of 
the car, putting on his flak jacket. 
 
                                  TOM (Shouts.) 
                        Everyone stay where they are. 
 
TOM walks towards IBHN and the boy. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          That means you too, Boss! 
 



 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 65 

TOM turns to him and stops. TOM is now halfway between the 
police cordon and IBHN and ABU - thirty metres. 
 
GENERAL POV FROM ABOVE: 
 
The playground is like an arena, IBHN and ABU at its centre, 
TOM stranded, Police surrounding on all sides. 
 
No one moves. 
 
POV CLOSE TO IBHN AND ABU: 
 
There is a distance of some 15 metres between them. IBHN is 
walking straight up to the boy. 
 
                                    TOM (Low) 
              What the hell do you think you re doing? 
                                (Aloud to Ibhn.) 
                  Khaldun we have procedures for this. 
 
IBHN waves to TOM without looking round. He goes straight up 
to ABU. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                        Why do you want to do this? 
 
                                        ABU 
                    To die in the face of oppression. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                                  Why do that? 
 
                                        ABU 
                                  For freedom. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                      Shall I tell this Englishman? 
 
ABU is uncertain. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d)  
                  (Shouting over his shoulder to Tom.) 
          He wants to die for freedom. Do you understand? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Yes I understand. 
 
                                  IBHN (To Abu.) 
                              Aren t you free now? 
 
ABU s hysteria goes up a notch. 
 



 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 66 

                                        ABU 
          There is no freedom outside the House of Islam! 
 
                                        IBHN 
          The House of Islam will never be built in this 
                          country by violence, Abu. 
 
                                        ABU 
            That is not for us to judge. Victory is only 
                                  granted by God. 
 
TOM observes the body language of the boy. He is very worried. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Ibhn do this my way. Abu, we will talk to you but 
                Mr. Khaldun will step back now. Ibhn. 
 
IBHN puts his hands on ABU s shoulders. ABU draws back for a 
moment. 
 
                                        IBHN 
              I will hold you until this is over. Do you 
              understand? I am not going to let you go. 
 
                                        ABU 
                I am a martyr. I am going to paradise. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          It s a pointless death... 
 
              IBHN (Interrupting, shouting back at Tom.) 
            Do not interfere with a man who is going to 
                                      paradise. 
 
TOM is frustrated. CLOSE TO his fist as he clenches it. 
 
IBHN looks at ABU s neck. He realises that, under a pullover, 
he is wearing a football shirt. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                                  Are you Villa? 
 
                                        ABU 
                                        What? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                    The shirt, are you Aston Villa? 
 
ABU looks at him, bewildered by the change of tone. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
            Suicide s a bit extreme, isn t it? Even for a 
                                Villa supporter. 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 67 

 
ABU is confused. IBHN has taken a great gamble. He is smiling 
but even his iron nerves cannot stop a flicker of tension on 
his face. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
            I support Algeria. I live in hope that one day 
                        they ll win the African Cup. 
                                    (To Tom.) 
                          Abu s a Villa supporter. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Great. Does he want to meet the team? 
 
                                        IBHN 
                      Do you? They can arrange that. 
 
                                ABU (Hesitates.) 
                                        I... 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Course there are some people in my country who say 
            that football s against the teaching of Holy 
                          Koran. What do you think? 
 
A moment. 
 
                                        ABU 
                                      S rubbish. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        The Taliban in Afghanistan banned football. They 
        used the stadium in Kabul for executions. They cut 
        off people s heads in the centre circle. What do 
                              you think of that? 
                                    (A beat.) 
            Mind you... If they were Man U supporters... 
 
He shrugs. 
 
                                        ABU 
                                        Leeds. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        Ah. Abu. Football s... One of the better things in 
          life eh? Don t leave the human race, Abu. Who s 
                        your next home game against? 
 
                                        ABU 
                                        Leeds. 
 
                                        IBHN 
                              I ll come with you. 


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 68 

 
CLOSE TO ABU. Tears stain his cheeks. 
 
IBHN speaks with deep kindness, keeping eye contact. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
        The Prophet himself - peace be upon him - wrestled 
          with demons and angels, Abu. There is no shame. 
 
                                        ABU 
        The Mullah said that... As a martyr... On domesday 
                I can intercede for seventy loved ones. 
 
                                        IBHN 
        The Mullah was wrong. You know that, just listen 
                  to yourself, listen to your heart. 
 
ABU is weakening, he is exhausted with the pressure. As if he 
is sleepy. 
 
                                        ABU 
        I do. I have to send an unbeliever to hell. Then I 
                              will see paradise... 
 
                                        IBHN 
        The only paradise we will see will be one we make 
                                on earth, Abu. 
 
ABU clicks wide awake at this atheistical sentiment. 
 
A moment with them looking at each other. 
 
                                  IBHN (cont d) 
                            You know it. You do. 
 
A strange ecstatic grin is coming over ABU s face. 
 
IBHN judges what is coming. He lunges at ABU, embracing him 
fully at the same time pulling at his hand. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              He s going to go! 
 
Behind TOM a policeman is rushing at him. TOM takes one stride 
toward IBHN and ABU. The policeman rugby tackles TOM to the 
ground. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                      Khaldun! 
 
                                  IBHN (To Abu.) 
                                    Don t be... 
 


 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 69 

The vest explodes. Blazing white. 
 
TOM S POV FROM THE GROUND: 
 
The fireball around the two figures. All the witnesses of the 
event - including TOM, a third of the way across the 
playground - are thrown themselves to the ground by the blast. 
 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE DALE are walking along. They are tense. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I misread Khaldun. I didn t know if he was 
          naive... A double agent... Or what. Actually he 
                                    was a hero. 
 
                            CHRISTINE (With heat.) 
                          And you got him killed. 
 
TOM stops dead. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I m sorry? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          A cast iron asset, a man who could have been a 
            great agent for us and for you... you got him 
                                      terminated. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            That is the CIA line? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          My superiors are so angry with you people, they 
                              are in melt-down. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well sod your superiors. And are you in meltdown 
                                        too? 
 



 70                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 2 Page 71 

                                      CHRISTINE 
              You bet. You nearly got yourself killed. 
 
They look at each other. She goes on tip toe and kisses him. 
Lingers a moment. Then turns and goes. 
 
GENERAL POV: TOM standing still, CHRISTINE walking away. 
 
END 












































 71