 
Fire crews, ambulances, police vans, activity... and the 
house. Still standing. You will rightly wonder what the hell 
is going on. We will get back to you if that s okay. 
We hear the chirp of a mobile phone. Camera seeks out and 
finds TOM amongst a crowd of police with cutting equipment- 
 
                            TOM (answering phone) 
              Danny. I m okay. I ll have to talk later. 
 
                                    DANNY V.O. 
                                Tom? Tom-what s- 
 
TOM ends the call and reverts his attention to the police 
cutters who have removed the lock from the door. They heave it 
open to find ELLIE and MAISIE standing there. 
 
MAISIE in earmuffs, clutching her bagpuss cloth cat. 
 
A moment. Sorrow. Guilt. Relief. Anger. But mostly, right now 
- love. They move slowly to each other. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                What happened-? 
 
TOM holds them, moves them away from the danger. 
 
                                      POLICEMAN 
            Safe distance please-nice and easy. Alright, 
            disposal, where s disposal? I want this place 
                                        clear! 
 
A bomb disposal team enter the house. 
 


 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 3 

 
ELLIE and MAISIE sit on the kerb, comforted by TOM. Crowds of 
bomb disposal personnel are running around. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Give them some space! 
 
                                    DISPOSAL GUY 
            We re all clear sir. The detonator failed to 
                            ignite the explosive. 
                                        (beat) 
                        Thought you d want to know. 
 
Tom nods, waves him off. His phone rings. Diverts- 
 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 4 

                              TOM (at the phone) 
                                      Go away. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                                    Failed, Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Thirty six percent of all detonators fail on 
            improvised explosive devices. Sometimes the 
          detonator goes off on its own. Sometimes nothing 
                                      happens. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                Well that s very reassuring isn t it- 
 
TOM s phone goes again. TOM rejects call, forcefully. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                What s going on? 
 
                                        TOM 
        We re all just going to go to the doctor s for a 
                                      checkup. 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                  But I m fine. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                  Tom, I need to get away from here- 
 
                                        TOM 
        They re just getting an overnight bag for you-from 
                                      upstairs- 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                    I need to get away from here NOW. 
 
TOM s phone goes off again. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                Will you just answer the bloody phone! 
 
                                        MAISIE 
                                        Mummy! 
 
                                TOM (answering) 
                            We re alive, alright? 
 
 
DANNY is on the phone to TOM- 
 



 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 5 

                                        DANNY 
                  I know you re alive, are you okay? 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                        TOM 
          Yeah. Thanks to McCann s shoddy workmanship. He 
                    clearly can t build a detonator. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            You re wrong. A carbomb just killed Michael 
          Purefoy at home. They think his kids were with 
                                        him. 
 
On TOM as he absorbs this. The POLICEMAN walks over- 
 
                                      POLICEMAN 
                      The car s just over here sir. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      WE KNOW. 
                                (into the phone) 
                              Stay on the line. 
                                    (to Ellie) 
                          Stay close to me, okay? 
 
ELLIE takes MAISIE in her arms. We move with them past the 
chaos, the aftermath, the onlookers... 
 
                                        DANNY 
              It s carnage, Tom. House was destroyed. No 
                                      warning. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        How do we know it s McCann? 
 
                                        DANNY. 
          Because his group just claimed responsibility. 
          They re rebranding themselves the War for Irish 
                                        Unity. 
 
                                TOM(into phone) 
          Recommend they double anti-terror units on close 
          protection duty. Everyone on the blue list, not 
          just Cabinet members. Get Zoe and a full team 
          bringing the shutters down - liaise with customs 
        at the ports - fence them in and hunt them down. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Are you coming in? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m staying with my family. I ll be on my phone 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 6 

                                    and pager. 
 
A Lexus pulls up. ELLIE and MAISIE get in, helped by the 
policeman. TOM gets in and slams the door - 
 
 
At a stop. Crowds file off. ZOE s dying to get off. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Ah well, lovely to - 
 
                                        SARAH 
                          Oh, this is my stop too! 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 25 

She grins again. ZOE smiles warmly.  Excellent...  
 
 
ZOE and SARAH stand at the corner waiting for the traffic. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I d love a drink, Sarah, but tell you the truth, 
        I ve had a bitch of a day. Think I m coming down 
                                with something. 
 
SARAH, a hypochondriac, backs off a little. 
 
                                        SARAH 
          Don t give it to me I ve just got over the last 
                        one. Ah well, see you soon. 
 
SARAH waves, turns back to the crossing. ZOE walks off. A 
thought strikes SARAH. She gets out her mobile phone... 
 
                                        SARAH 
                        Oh, we should swap numbers- 
 
But when she turns back ZOE has disappeared. SARAH s a little 
puzzled. Shrugs, and walks off down a side road. 
 
ZOE appears from a doorway. A bus arrives - the same route she 
just got off. ZOE gets on. Not her stop at all. 
 
 
Establishing. 
 
 
SAM stands outside a  WORKS  site. Joiners and electricians 
work calmly inside. A sign is being affixed that reads 
 FILMZ . 
 
 
A man we should recognise as one of GRADIC s henchmen enters 
an old public lavatory. He has a copy of the London Evening 
Standard. 
 
 
Three military vehicles leave a security gate accompanied by a 
military police escort. A small sign says  MOD DISC/BNIC - 
Military personnel only . 
 
 
The convoy stops as it sees a man on the road ahead. He s 
lying in a pool of blood. 
 
The drivers of the first vehicle get out, move to investigate. 
Weapons at the ready. 
 
                              ANOTHER DRIVER O.S. 
                    Oh, shit. Anyone got a medipack? 
 
As the drivers move closer, the dead man rises - we will 
recognise him as GRADIC. He pulls a gun - fells them with 
silenced automatic weapon fire. No emotion on his face. 
Shadowy figures swoop from the woodland around. Guns thrust 
into cabs. Short bursts of fire, then nothing. 
 
Two shadows leap into the back of truck. There are large 
crates here. The equipment is heavy duty military hardware. 
Bazookas. Nasty, nasty stuff. 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 35 

 
 
Establishing. Dawn. Red sky in the morning... 
 
 
RADO unlocks his communal front door and pushes it open. ZOE 
turns and glances around before she enters. 
 
PULLING BACK 
 
DANNY is standing across the road, in the shadows. The door 
shuts. Satisfied, he departs, takes out his mobile - 
 
                              DANNY (into phone) 
                                      She s in. 
                                        (beat) 
                                  Where are you? 
 
He passes a group of young KIDS. They clock the phone. 
 
 
DANNY is still on the mobile. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 43 

                                        DANNY 
            What makes you think she ll speak to you in 
                                      person? 
 
                                      TOM (VO) 
                Reckless optimism. Can you see the flat? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yep. Light is on and all s well. All under control 
                                    this end. 
 
He stops. Sees that the KIDS have turned and followed him. 
Standing there. More of them than we d thought. 
 
                                      TOM (VO) 
                                        Danny? 
 
                              DANNY (into phone) 
                                  Hang on a sec. 
                                    (to kids) 
                                Can I help you? 
 
                                        KID 
                                        Yeah. 
 
Silence. DANNY s impatient now, a little distracted- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Look - what do you want? 
 
A stanley knife appears from behind DANNY - and it s levelled 
at his throat - 
 
                                        KID 
                                    Your phone. 
 
DANNY moves quickly - disarming the knife-holder - but there s 
just too many of them and DANNY s kicked in the balls. He 
drops - the phone is taken. More blows go in - wham wham wham 
- impacting his ribs... his head ... 
 
                                      TOM (VO) 
                                  Danny? Danny! 
 
The kids run off. 
 
 
TOM s car does a sharp U-turn. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
              Malcolm? Get a paramedic crew down to the 
            following location-12 Winton Terrace, SW9... 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 44 

 
 
CLOSE SHOT: A bundle of Evening Standards is dropped off by a 
newsstand. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
          Hello. I ve got an ad going in the next edition 
        and I ve just looked over the info. I think I may 
          have made a mistake, I just have to amend some 
                                details. Thanks. 
 
AT THE NEWS-STAND 
 
Someone purchases a copy of the City Prices edition. 
 
 
HARRY climbs out of a waiting car. Armed military men in 
combats stand guard. HARRY dashes across the drive towards 
a stately home - that screams: fuck-off important meeting held 
here. He enters and climbs the stairs. 
 
 
GRADIC is here, commando gear and attitude. 
 
He gestures to the others - they fan out and disappear into 
the gloom. GRADIC pulls off his safety. 
 
They move off, towards the stately home. 
 
 
This is the location of Cobra. The bad news is, GRADIC s team 
can be seen approaching. Lights blaze inside. 
 
 
As TOM arrives at the same building. There s an eerie silence 
about the place. 
 
 
Dark figures enter through a service/kitchen door. 
 
 
TOM, ZOE, DANNY. They watch as GRADIC is manhandled onto a 
helicopter. The atmosphere is grim - no  victory . 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    How long s the flight to Holland? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        He s not going to the Hague. 
 
DANNY looks at TOM. TOM passes ZOE a sheet of paper. 
 
                                  ZOE (reading) 
                                        Egypt. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Via RAF Shoreham.  


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 68 

                                        (beat) 
          In the interests of justice we re telling them 
              he s a paedophile. On a British passport. 
 
The rotors start swishing through the air... a downdraft blows 
their hair back... 
 
                                        TOM 
            Do you know what the Egyptians do with sex 
                                      offenders? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Would I want to know? 
 
TOM shakes his head. The copter powers upwards into the night 
sky... TOM turns away, walks - ZOE and DANNY with him. That 
Spooks moment. Almost to himself: 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You d want to forget. 
 
 
TOM walks from his car towards a front door. The door opens. 
ELLIE stands there, defiant. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I just want to see her. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
        Do you know what time it is? This is so unfair of 
                                        you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Please. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                              Tom, don t do this- 
 
                                        TOM 
          You d do it. Come on, you would. One last time. 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                        She s in bed. She s asleep. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What are you going to tell her? 
 
                                        ELLIE 
                  I ll tell her you fell asleep too. 
 




 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 1 Page 69 

TOM turns, walks back to the car. ELLIE can t bear to shut the 
door just yet-but has to. Has to. She shuts - the sound of the 
latch like a final nail in the coffin for TOM. 
 
He walks to his car. 
 
In a bedroom window, MAISIE s face appears. 
 
If TOM turned around now, he d see her. 
 
But he s too upset. He unlocks the car. A moment. 
 
He senses something. ELLIE appears briefly at the window and 
takes MAISIE away - 
 
Just as TOM turns around- 
 
The light goes out. TOM turns back to the car and gets in. 
 
