
To establish. Sunwashed California gold glints over the hills of 
Los Feliz and Silver Lake...


A huge grey and white shingled testament to an idea about Sag 
Harbor. The lawn is too green, the driveway too clean. This is 
Sarah s house.


Move out of the lush, bouganvilla-scented hills... into the smoggy 
sketchiness of Ktown.

Find THE TALMADGE, a beautiful but gone-to-seed, unkempt 1920 s 
courtyard building. 


Hipsters wait in line for expensive coffee, lock up fixed gear 
bikes, subconsciously compare beards.


Ali hikes with her best friend, the diminutive and spunky LIZ. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    3


                                          LIZ
                        You worried about him?

                                          ALI
                        Little outta of character to ask 
                        us to come to the house on a 
                        weeknight. Hope he s not dying. 

                                          LIZ
                        Uh, yeah.

                                          ALI
                        Okay, so, ya know that kids  book 
                        Are You My Mother?

                                          LIZ
                        Of course. It was my favorite. 

                                          ALI
                        So I wanna write a parody, but 
                        called Are You My Soulmate? 

                                          LIZ
                        Ha and ha.

                                          ALI
                        It would have that little bird, 
                        but instead of getting confused 
                        about who it s mommy is, it s 
                        about all the inappropriate guys 
                        baby bird keeps accidentally  
                        fucking. 

                                          LIZ
                        Are you gonna have a picture of 
                        that freaky old biker dude you 
                        used to bone? 

                                          ALI
                        Yeah, someone similar. They ll 
                        sell it at checkout at Urban 
                          Outfitters! 

                                          LIZ
                        Uh, yeah, you might get sued. 

                                          ALI
                        Stop thwarting my creative 
                          enthusiasm. I have so little of it 
                        left.

They notice DEREK, a hot African-American TRAINER in army 
fatigues, hands on hips, scanning the middle distance as he stands 
over a pudgy GUY doing HORRIFIC sit ups. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    4


                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        See, this is what I love. Ask any 
                        white person, what is your biggest 
                        fear. They d say, some like, 
                        hulking black man in the park 
                        taking your money and forcing you 
                        to do things against your will.

They look around. There are at least three BLACK GUYS dotted 
across the park-- checking watches, placing yoga balls.

                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        But look. The money, the forcing, 
                        it s all here.

                                          LIZ
                        This place is lousy with black men 
                        making white people do stuff. 

                                          ALI
                        You know what lousy means, right?

                                          LIZ
                        No.

                                          ALI
                        Licey. A louse is a singular lice. 
                        You just compared people of color 
                        to lice.

                                          LIZ
                        I don t like you.


Sarah, looking unmade-up amazing in $400 linen pants, heads toward 
the sea of Odyssey minivans and Priuses. 

                                            SARAH
                              (into phone)
                        Yah, Dad, of course I ll be there. 
                        Okay. Love you, Daddy.

Sarah puts her phone away and heads toward the preschool. 

In the distance, she sees TAMMY, super fashionable, architectural 
glasses, no makeup. 

Sarah approaches tentatively.

                                            SARAH (CONT D)
                        Hi.

                                            TAMMY
                        Hey Sarah. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    5


Sarah looks around; no one is watching them.

                                            SARAH
                        You re never here in the morning.

                                            TAMMY
                        Jan s been doing drop-offs and 
                        pick ups, I ve been on deadline. 
                        Was in Bahrain. For work. 

                                            SARAH
                        Whoa. Bahrain. Intense.
                                (then)
                        Hey so I m sorry I didn t reach 
                        out earlier--

                                            TAMMY
                        I get it-- honestly, I have no 
                        hard feelings--

                                            SARAH
                        When you guys came to the school, 
                        I really was going to-- wanted to-- 
                        get the girls together. Schedule a 
                        playdate. But I ve been working on 
                        my boundaries, and Len, Len kind 
                        of knows-- or more he doesn t 
                        know. The extent of-- yeah, I 
                        never really told him. 

Sarah STARES at Tammy s neck. Time slows down. 

On Tammy s skin, her breathing. Finally--

                                            SARAH (CONT D)
                        So of course, I thought it could 
                        be-- inappropriate. If I really 
                        brought you into my world.

                                            TAMMY
                        I get it.

                                            SARAH
                        And then I was going to join the 
                          fundraising committee when I saw 
                        that you were on the fundraising 
                          committee--

                                            TAMMY
                        Well, don t, it s awful.

                                            SARAH
                        They re all awful. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    6


                                            TAMMY
                        Yeah. So-- yes. I would love to 
                        hang out. When?

                                            SARAH
                        Good! Today, tomorrow?

                                            TAMMY
                        Grace naps after pick-up, so, 
                        three?

                                            SARAH
                        Oh, with the girls--

                                            TAMMY
                        I thought that s what you said-- 
                        didn t you say a playdate. You 
                        said playdate.

                                            SARAH
                        Or without is fine?

                                            TAMMY
                        No, with the kids is better, let 
                        me check with Jan about Grace s 
                        schedule, I m a little out of the 
                        loop--

                                            SARAH
                          Absolutely. Check with Jan. 

Tammy walks away. As Sarah watches her, she has to catch her 
breath, get her bearings. 


Post-modern Palisades fabulousness. It s architectural porn, Dwell 
magazine wish fulfillment, walls of glass, towering Eucalyptus 
trees. Spotlit driveway.


Joshua and Mort are in the driveway, surveying their two cars-- 
Joshua s BMW, Mort s Mercedes.

                                          MORT
                        Grand Wagoneer, huh?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Like, one of the vintage ones, 
                        with the wood on the side--

                                          MORT
                        No, yeah, I remember what they 
                        are. Okay, so you re going to pass 
                        on the Porsche?

                                          JOSHUA
                        See, the thing about women is, 
                        they say they want you to get the 
                        vintage Grand Wagoneer instead of 
                        the Porsche-- but they really want 
                        you to have the Porsche. Drive too 
                        fast, spend too much. Tell  em 
                        where it s at.

A beat, then: TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    16


                                          MORT
                        Some women, I guess. 

On Josh, looking at Mort-- huh?

                                          MORT (CONT D)
                        You shouldn t categorize--  all 
                        women this, all women that .

                                          JOSHUA
                        Hey, learned that from you.

                                          MORT
                        I don t know everything.

                                          JOSHUA
                        You re freaking me out, Dad. 
                        You re talking me out of a 
                        Porsche. 

Sarah and Ali EMERGE FROM THE HOUSE into the driveway.

                                            SARAH
                        --and I know that Len would want 
                        it as is and have us bring in our  
                        own designer.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Guys, if we don t at least chat 
                        with my guy and get a bead on what 
                        we could pull if we flip it, we re 
                        serious jerkbags. This thing could 
                        be worth a ton. Land alone.

As Joshua and Sarah are distracted, hands on hips, looking the 
bones of the house up and down, we barely notice

MORT SECRETLY HANDING the ROLL OF CASH to ALI.

Ali gives her dad a surreptitious hug, then mouths:

                                          ALI
                        Thank you.

                                          MORT
                        All right guys. Thanks for taking 
                        the news so well.

Mort heads back inside with a wave. 


The three kids are alone in the driveway. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    17


                                          JOSHUA
                        Did Dad seem weird to you guys?

                                            SARAH
                        Weird how?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Like happy weird?

                                          ALI
                        Probably found a new forty-year 
                        old divorcee to bang.

                                            SARAH
                        Don t say bang.

                                          ALI
                        Oh, stop it with your refusing to 
                          acknowledge that pops is a pussy 
                        hound.

                                          JOSHUA
                        Ew.

                                            SARAH
                        Marcy hound. Weren t all three of 
                        his last few girlfriends named 
                        Marcy?

                                          ALI
                        I think they were.

Joshua types something into his phone, then:

                                          JOSHUA
                        And coincidentally, I have to 
                        check out a band called Marcyhound 
                        at the Troubadour.

                                            SARAH
                        Really?

                                          JOSHUA
                        Ya think, Sarah? 
                                (then)
                        Can you drive Ali back? 

                                            SARAH
                        Yup.

As they head to their cars, we move to: TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    18



The ocean at night.


Joshua parks his car in front of a small, CRAPPY Malibu shoebox 
four-plex. Looks around. Makes sure no one sees him.


The sun rises through the smog. We find Ali s Koreatown faded 
beauty building.


Ali pours hot water from a tea kettle into a French Press. She 
LOOKS FOR WALLIS in the courtyard, but she s not there.


Snazzy Marina del Rey Condo highrise.


The sun rises through the smog. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    27



Josh and Brannon are in bed. Josh fiddles with Brannon s hair.

                                            BRANNON
                        What? TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    28


                                          JOSHUA
                        What.

                                            BRANNON
                        What.

                                          JOSHUA
                        What?


From a distance, Ali sees Derek. He s doing pull ups. She 
approaches.

                                          ALI
                        Hi.

                                            DEREK
                        Hey.

                                          ALI
                        You re-- one of those guys, right?
                        You work people out in the park? 

                                            DEREK
                        Yeah.

                                          ALI
                        Do you have time in your schedule 
                        for a new-- anyone?

                                            DEREK
                        What are you looking for?

                                          ALI
                        I hate my body. I want to change 
                        it.

                                            DEREK
                        What do you want to do to it?

                                          ALI
                        Well. I want those sculpted arms. 
                        And a tight little waist. And a 
                        big round ass. 
                                (then)
                        I want to be rooted to the ground. 
                        I want to be a tree trunk, I want 
                        to not fall over. Just-- planted.


Sarah and Tammy talk as they head out of the building. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    29


                                            TAMMY
                        But don t you think you would miss 
                        Los Feliz? Silver Lake, Sunset 
                        Junction? The ninety-nine cents 
                        store and the pupusa lady?

                                            SARAH
                        The schools would be better for 
                        the kids.

                                            TAMMY
                        But the people over there. Those 
                        moms. I mean, you re so not one of 
                        those moms.

Beat, then:

                                            SARAH
                        Do you remember the house?

                                            TAMMY
                        Kind of. Thanksgiving, like, the 
                        week after your parents told you 
                        guys they were getting divorced.

Sarah looks around.

                                            SARAH
                        Wanna go check it out with me? 
                        Drive out there?

                                            TAMMY
                        Now?

                                            SARAH
                        What do you normally do when Grace 
                        is at school? I mean, when you re 
                        not on deadline-- are you on 
                        deadline?

                                            TAMMY
                        Just turned something in.
                                (thinks, then)
                        I wouldn t mind seeing the house 
                        again.


CLOSE on ALI S FACE dropping in and out of the frame as she does  
PUSH-UPS. Derek s feet move in and out of frame, pacing.

                                            DEREK
                        We re not going to think about it 
                        as deprivation. I want you to 
                        think about it as discipline. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    30


                                          ALI
                        YES. Discipline. Tell me what to 
                        do. Tell me what to eat. Make me a 
                        menu and I ll eat exactly what you 
                        tell me to eat every day. Nothing 
                        more.

Ali stops her push ups. Her face is on the ground, FINISHED. 

                                          ALI (CONT D)
                        Can t do any more. You got  em 
                        all.

Derek s FACE DROPS INTO THE FRAME with hers, planked atop of her 
body. His strong arms hold his body a push up, just above her. 

                                            DEREK
                        Really now? That s ALL you got for 
                        me?

                                          ALI
                        I m sure.

                                            DEREK
                        Gimme one more. 

                                          ALI
                        I can t.

                                            DEREK
                                (beat, then)
                        Move that big ass.

Ali smiles, then does a perfect PUSH UP. On Derek-- wow, that 
worked. 

                                            DEREK (CONT D)
                        Nice. One more.

She doesn t move.

                                            DEREK (CONT D)
                        One more. You-- fat bitch.

                                          ALI
                        Fat white bitch.

                                            DEREK
                        Don t tell me what to say.

                                          ALI
                        Sorry.

Derek laughs. TRANSPARENT     JUNE 13 2013    31


                                            DEREK
                        Stop making me laugh. This isn t 
                        funny. Ten more.
                                (counting down)
                        Ten. Nine. 

Derek dismounts, STANDS, arms folded, looking down at her. 


A lizard jumps. A green beetle chomps on a tiny leaf. A humming 
dragonfly swirls around the swath of wild fennel.

Sarah and Tammy get out of Tammy s car and walk toward the house. 

                                            TAMMY
                        Do you have keys?

                                            SARAH
                        He always leaves the back open.

Sarah heads to the side gate and towards the yard, Tammy follows. 
As they make their way through the thick foliage:

                                            TAMMY
                        I remember this garden.

                                            SARAH
                        Do you ever think about Paul and 
                        Tino?

                                            TAMMY
                        Of course I do.

                                            SARAH
                        I hope somebody adopted them.

                                            TAMMY
                        I hope so too.

They emerge into the yard and go towards the sliding door.


On Derek s face:

                                            DEREK 
                        Six. Five. 

