BEAUTY AND THE BEAST









"An Impossible Silence"





Written by

Howard Gordon & Alex Ganza










Directed by

Christopher Leitch




















					FIRST DRAFT
				          		       October 21, 1987 (Yellow)
					    		       October 19, 1987 (Pink)
					    		       October 16, 1987 (Blue)
					    		       October 14, 1987
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
"AN IMPOSSIBLE SILENCE"

ACT ONE

FADE IN:


1. EXT. SOUTH STREET DOCKS - LONG SHOT - NIGHT

   down this wet and empty street.

PEROTTA
			I appreciate you going to bat for
			me, Danny.  I owe you.
			
YATES
			Forget about it.


2. CLOSER - MOVING

with TONY PEROTTA, handsome, mid-thirties, jeans, leather
jacket, boots, and a Brooklyn accent: and with DANNY
YATES, same age, all-American good looks, courderoy jacket
over a sweater. Perotta's got a nervous edge that's been
dulled a little by booze.  A car passes in b.g. with an
adhesive sound against the glistening pavement.  Yates
casually follows it's progress, as:

YATES
			Keller's on edge like the rest of us.


PEROTTA
			Yeah, well he lost it when I told
			him.
				(he exhales an ironic
				 laugh)
			All we have to do is return it
			to property.  They don't keep
			track.  They'll never know it was
			missing, and we can all wipe the
			slate clean.  Who needs that kind
			of pressure?

YATES
				(overriding; firm)
			I said, don't worry.  I'll smooth
			things over with Laine -- then
			we'll talk about it.	

Perotta smiles and nods his appreciation.  Beat.  Yates
buttons his jacket with the sudden realization:

YATES
			It's getting cold...



Yates slips on a pair of leather gloves as they move to
Perotta's late model Mustang.  Perotta fishes out his
keys, jingles them to isolate the right one.  He opens
the driver's door and gets inside.  Rolls down the window.

YATES
			You okay to drive?

PEROTTA
			I've driven worse.
				(then: nervous laugh)
			Listen to me: some cop, huh? So
			where'd you park?

YATES
			Couple blocks down on South
			Street.

PEROTTA
			C'mon.  I'll give you a lift.


YATES
			Thanks, but I'm gonna walk.


PEROTTA
				(nods)
			Sure.  See you tomorrow.

YATES
				(beat)
			Yeah. I'll see you.



Yates takes another casual glance around -- before we see
him pull a .44 Bulldog from the back of his waistband.
And as he raises the gun from behind his back:



3. PEROTTA'S POV

as Yates, neutral-faced, extends his arm and fires twice
at point-blank.



4. LONG SHOT

Yates arm remains extended, as the gunshots reverberate
through the empty streets.


5. REVERSE ANGLE

to reveal a seventeen year old girl crouched in the
shadows across the street, behind a garbage can, still
holding the crate of oranges that she had been carrying.
Her name is LAURA and her expression tells us that she's
seen everything.


6. YATES

lowers the gun and stares down at Perotta's motionless
body.


7. LAURA

quietly sets down the crate.  She backs up slowly,
inadvertently displacing the garbage can lid so that it
SCRAPES the pavement, and:


8. YATES

reacts, wheeling around.  He scrutinizes the darkness for
the sound's source, but sees nothing.  He cuts a diagonal
across the street, moving toward the sound, and:


9. LAURA'S POV

as Yates nears, sweeping the area.



10. CU - LAURA

trying to control her nervous breathing.  Moment of
decision: there's no choice.  She bolts out from the
shadows and takes off down the sidewalk, and:



11. YATES

empties his .44 at her running silhouette, until it
disappears down an adjacent alley.  He takes off after
her.


12. EXT. DOCKSIDE ALLEY

Laura runs, pumping her legs and arms with everything
she's got.  She glances back over her shoulder to find
Yates a hundred yards behind her.  But the distance
between them is decreasing.  Quickly.

13. EXT. STREET

Laura breaks out around the corner.  She stops in the
middle of the street.  Left or right?  With Yates
crescendoing footsteps, she chooses to go right.


14. CU LAURA - MOVING

with her as she runs, and doesn't look back.  Her eyes
tear with exhaustion and her face begins to show the ebb
of adrenalin.  Twenty yards more, and she stagger,
falling headlong onto the concrete.


15. LOW ANGLE - LAURA

her head bowed, her body heaving for oxygen -- as a pair
of spit-polished shoes step INTO FRAME.  Laura looks up.
startled:



16. ANOTHER ANGLE

a UNIFORMED COP regards her with a mixture of concern and
confusion.

COP
			You okay?

Laura exhales her great relief.  He helps Laura to her
feet.  She nods tentatively, still gaping, then looks
back.



17. HER POV

no sign of Yates.  They are in the parking lot of a run
down commercial corner consisting of a laundromat, a
hamburger shack, and a mini-market.  All closed.  A lone
streetlamp casts an oblong circle of pale yellow light.



18. RESUME SCENE

COP
			What are you doing in this
			part of town, anyway?

But Laura is strangely shy.  She regards the Cop in
grateful silence, then looks away, as we:

CUT TO:
19. INT. TUNNELS - PASCAL'S PIPE CHAMBER - NIGHT

This is one of several communication junctions, where
hundreds of pipes of varying diameters run along the walls
and ceiling -- even the floor.  Where the metallic tapping
is constant, creating an incredible, echoing symphony.
Where messages from various parts of the tunnel world
converge and are relayed to their proper destinations.  It
is in this room that CHARLIE PASCAL spends most of his
time -- monitoring, sending, and receiving.  Armed with
foot-and-a-half long rods in each hand, Pascal moves from
one pipe to another with a dancer's grace and a 
neurosurgeon's intensity.


PASCAL
			See?  I worked out this
			abbreviation for express stuff.


He taps a staccatti code.


PASCAL
			You wouldn't believe how much we
			cut down on congestion.


ANGLE TO INCLUDE VINCENT

watching Pascal from the chamber entrance, amused.


VINCENT
			Oh, I believe it.  But don't you
			ever get tired, Pascal?

PASCAL
				(deadpan)
			Only when I stop.

Vincent smiles.  Then he turns at the sound of running
footsteps, and:



20. ANOTHER ANGLE

as Laura rounds the corner, crying, gasping for air, and
flies into Vincent's arms.  He holds her with soothing
firmness.  She continues sobbing, choked and breathless.
Pascal is visible in b.g., concerned, but bound to the
pipe.  And on Vincent's deeply troubled face, we:


CUT TO: 



20A. - 21. OMITTED 




22. EXT. DA'S OFFICE - OUTSIDE MAXWELL OFFICE - DAY

where Cathy is waiting for Maxwell, who steps out.  MOVING
WITH THEM as they wend their way through office traffic
to the Press Briefing Room.  Unconsciously his hand
wanders up to check his tie.  And, as he catches a
reflection of himself in a glass cabinet, he runs his hand
through his hair.


CATHY
			You look fine, Joe.


Maxwell shoots her a gimme-a-break look.  Then:



MAXWELL
			I hate these guys.  They move in
			packs, like wolves... or sharks.

CATHY			
				(amused)
			It's only a roomful of
			reporters...

MAXWELL
			Easy for you to say.


CATHY
			Relax. It's not like you're
			running for office.


Maxwell's sideways-look at her betrays the political
aspirations he hides beneath his easy smile and manner. 


CATHY
			Or are you?


They stop before a door.  Maxwell's tone is serious.





MAXWELL
			Let's just say that putting a
			copkiller away won't hurt my
			career any.
				(then)
			Wish me luck.

Cathy smiles as she follows Maxwell into the room.


CUT TO:


23. INT. PRESS BRIEFING ROOM - DAY

Cathy leans against the wall beside the door, as Maxwell
approaches a small podium to face a battery of microphones
and mini-cams.  Twenty reporters sit in fold-up chairs
waiting for him to say something.  Maxwell pulls out a
sheet of paper from his coat pocket, flattens it against
the podium.  He's holding two contrasting emotions in his
heart -- nervous but happy to be there.



MAXWELL
			I'm going to read a statement.
			After that, I'm not at liberty
			to answer questions.
				(looks up)
			I'm sorry.
				(then; reading)
			Last night Curtis Jackson was
			arrested and charged with the
			murder of Vice Squad Detective
			Tony Perotta.  Ballistics has
			confirmed that the hand gun found
			in his car was the murder weapon.
			The District Attorney has set a
			preliminary hearing date, and we
			have every reason to believe that
			justice will be served in a fair
			but expeditious fashion.
				(looking up; all charm)
			That's all folks.

As Maxwell makes his way out, the reporters hurl a few
questions at him (e.g. Will you be handling the case
personally?  Is it true that Curtis Jackson had threatened
Detective Perotta on numerous occasions?) which he brushes
off with a wave of his hand.


MAXWELL
			Excuse me...

He and Cathy exit back into the
24. CORRIDOR

where they head back to their offices.  After a couple of
steps, Joe finally asks:

MAXWELL
			Well... how was I?

CATHY			
				(veering away; ironic)
			Look out City Hall.

ON Joe's indignant face, as he watches her go.


CUT TO:


25. EXT. YATES'S HOUSE - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT

A modest two-family house in Brooklyn.  All's quiet.  At
least on the outside.

KELLER'S VOICE (OVER)
				(exploding)
			He was my partner eight years,
			you son-of-a --


DAVIS' VOICE (OVER)
				(overriding)
			Hey.


26. INT. YATES' HOUSE - BASEMENT

As Jack Davis wedges himself between LAINE KELLER and
Yates, who look as though they might kill one another.
Davis is Yate's longtime partner, early forties, black.
Keller looks older than his fifty-three years: he's tough,
but his time on the force has taken a visible toll.


KELLER
			How the hell could you do it,
			Danny?

YATES
				(right back)
			You should be thanking me for
			doing your dirty work.

KELLER
			That's bull!

DAVIS
			Back off. Both of you.

The force of Davis' baritone eases the tension a little.
Keller takes a few steps away

WIDER ANGLE

The walls and shelves are cluttered with pictures of the
kids at day camp, an assortment of trophies, as well as
several service commendations -- which should tell
us (in case we haven't already figured it out) that these
guys are cops.  New York cops.  There's also a pool table,
several bicycles, dart board, work bench with tools, and
a small, adjacent boiler room that has no door, visible
in b.g.


DAVIS
				(to Keller;
				 conciliatory)
			Look.  I'm sorry, Laine.  But Danny
			only did what he had to.  You know
			how Tony was, especially the last
			couple of weeks.  He would've
			blown it - for all of us.

Keller is deeply troubled.  He knows Davis is right.  This
knowledge cools him down considerably.

DAVIS
			Anyway, it's done with.  And if
			you're gonna blame Danny, you may
			as well blame me too.

Keller turns to regard Yates and Davis.  He swallows hard
as he nods.


KELLER
			What about Jackson?


DAVIS
			They got him cold.  Murder weapon,
			motive.  We just sit tight and
			let the system do its thing.
			Anyway, he's a punk.  Whatever
			he gets, he deserves.

Yates rubs a thoughtful hand over his mouth.  He's the
only one who knows it's not that simple; that there's a
witness somewhere out there.


YATES
			Listen -

Keller and Davis regard him.  He can't tell them.


YATES
				(to Laine)
			I want you to know, Laine.  I only
			did what was necessary.


Keller nods:  it is at once a compliance and an apology.
Yates moves to a frosted light fixture, which he begins to
unscrew from its base -


YATES
			Tony was a good man.

From the fixture he removes two plastic bagged kilos of
cocaine.  As he hefts theses in his hands, a kind of awe
spreads over his face


YATES
			But we are talking about a half
			a million dollars...

The power and responsibilities represented in this white
powder are undeniable to the three men.  For the first
time, they are unanimous.  Their trance is interrupted by a
sound:  FOOTSTEPS descending the stairs.  Yates quickly
hides the pouches into a toolbox, closing the lid, just as

MAGGIE YATES

enters, carrying a tray with three Budweisers.  She's in
her early thirties, pretty, and knows her place as dutiful
wife and mother.  She sets down the tray, and after a
quick look exchanged with her husband, approaches Keller,
regarding him sympathetically.

 
MAGGIE
			I'm sorry about Tony...

as she gives him a condolent hug.



KELLER
			Yeah, thanks Maggie. 

Yates cracks open a beer in b.g., and on Keller's
profoundly troubled face, we:


CUT TO:


27. INT. VINCENT'S CHAMBER - DAY

LAURA'S HANDS

signing passionately in American Sign Language (ASL),
shaping the very air with her words.

VINCENT (O.S.)
			I'm listening... 
WIDEN

to find Vincent, who has just signed "I'm listening..."
NOTE:  in this scene, Vincent signs only where indicated
and his signing should be slow and graceful, mirroring
his speech.)  He stands before Laura, whose expressive
face reflects the passion of her silent language, and the
anguish of her message.  And we now understand the cause
of her shy silence; she's been deaf from birth.  As Laura
continues to sign, Vincent overlaps.


VINCENT
				(repeating to himself)
			... the wrong man.

Laura touches the newspaper which lays on a table before
Vincent, folded over to the top of the fifth page.

28. INSERT - NEWSPAPER

the two-column headline: "COP KILLER CAUGHT."  Included
in this article is a picture of the young black suspect,
CURTIS JOHNSON.

29. RESUME SCENE

as Laura regards Vincent expectantly.


VINCENT
				(signing and speaking)
			Are you sure?

Laura nods vigorously.  Then:

LAURA
				(signing)
			I have eyes.  I saw him.

VINCENT
			You saw the killer?

LAURA
				(signing)
			I saw everything... clearly.
			The man, the killer, was white
			-- not black.

VINCENT
				(echoing softly)
			... The killer was a white
			man.

Laura nods, regarding Vincent, at once relieved of the
burden she's been carrying around and frightened by its
implications.  Vincent's face reflects her concern --
which is now their concern.  Then:


VINCENT
			It's good that you came to me,
			Laura.
 
LAURA
				(signing)
			I'm afraid...

But you don't have to be an expert to understand her fear
and confusion.  Laura's eyes start welling, at which point
she looks down.  Beat.  Vincent gently touches her
shoulder.  She looks up, regards him.  Vincent shakes
head assuringly.


VINCENT
			Don't be afraid.  You're not
			alone.  I promise.

And as she wipes away a tear, we:


CUT TO:


29A.EXT. CENTRAL PARK - CATHY - NIGHT

Descending the slope toward the drainage duct.
 

30. INT. THRESHOLD TO TUNNEL WORLD - NIGHT

At first we hear Vincent's voice -- timbre and bass -- as
the CAMERA PANS the sweating walls, CROSSES a tunnel
opening leading into the gloom...


VINCENT (O.S.)
			When Laura first came to live with
			us, she was only a child.  Alone
			and frightened.  Her parents
			abandoned her in the park...

and finally FINDS Vincent and Cathy together again.

VINCENT		
			...I suppose they wanted... a
			normal daughter.  But there was
			a friend, a helper -- and he
			brought her down here... to
			where it was safe... to where
			she could know love.
				(beat)
			I remember, in the beginning she
			used to collect things... keep
			them on her bedside table.  Alarm
			clocks ... bells ... buzzers.  And
 			she would hold them close to her
			ear... feeling the vibrations...
			trying to hear the stolen
			sounds...
				(then)
			It broke my heart.

Long beat.


CATHY		
			And you became her teacher? 

VINCENT		
			I became her friend. 

CATHY		
			Vincent... can she speak at all? 

VINCENT		
			She speaks with her hands... a
			beautiful language.

Cathy's concern grows as she becomes aware of Vincent's
powerful connection to the girl, of how important she is
to him.


CATHY		
			And she told you that she saw this
			murder?


Vincent nods gravely.


CATHY		
			How can she be sure it's not the
			same man. 

VINCENT		
			The man Laura saw... was not a
			black man.

Cathy considers this.  Then:


CATHY		
			Vincent... the evidence they have
			is overwhelming.  Is she positive? 


VINCENT		
			She is not mistaken.
				(beat)
			she knows what this might mean.

CATHY		
			Coming forward to tell her
			story.


VINCENT		
			Yes.




CATHY		
			I'll do everything I can to make
			that unnecessary.  But, Vincent...
				(beat)
			... I don't think there's any
			other way.

ON Vincent's troubled reaction; we,


CUT TO:


30A.INT. PASCAL'S PIPE CHAMBER - ON PASCAL - NIGHT

who, despite the relentless TAPPING, sleeps soundly on
a makeshift hammock that is strung up between two pipes.
He's still clutching a sheaf of schematic diagrams --
presumably, renderings of the pipe network.  CAMERA PANS,
past more of these diagrams strewn across the floor,
amongst books and a half-eaten loaf of bread... past twin
portraits of Alexander Graham Bell and Samuel Morse...
along a length of pipe, and stays on Laura, who is
touching it.  Her entire body is pressed close to the
wall, as she "listens with incredible concentration.

Laura deftly moves to another pipe and "listens" -- her
face reflecting an almost meditative serenity as she
monitors the very pulse of the world.

FADE OUT


			END OF ACT ONE
 

					ACT TWO


FADE IN:


31. INT. FATHER'S CHAMBER - DAY

CAMERA PANS the book-lined room

FATHER (O.S.)		
			I understand the problem enough
			to know that it isn't ours...

And finds Father addressing Vincent, who shakes his head
In heated disagreement.

VINCENT		
			Does our world exempt its people
			from moral responsibility?

FATHER		
			NO.  It offers them sanctuary from
			an impossible madness.  Especially
			those who most need protection.
			Like the girl.

VINCENT		
			Laura is no longer a girl.


FATHER		
			She's still vulnerable.  Exposing
			her like that -- 
				(Father breaks off;
				 exhales his
				 frustration; shakes
				 his head)
			Vincent: here, we've given her
			The chance to heal.


VINCENT		
			And to hide... 

Father reacts to the truth of Vincent's observation.

VINCENT		
			I know Laura's pain.  When she
			came to us, her soul was broken,
			and our love helped it to mend.
			But, some day, she'll need to
			grow beyond all of this...
			beyond us.

FATHER		
			And you think that day is now?


VINCENT		
			Without Laura's word, Catherine
			has no case.  An innocent man will
			go to prison.
				(beat; emphatic)
			That should mean something to you.

It does.  Still, Father's resolve remains firm.


FATHER		
			Our priority is to Laura.


VINCENT
				(turning to Father)
			Before, you said that the problem
			is not ours.
				(beat)
			Neither is our decision.

Father's thoughtful silence in an implicit concession.

And we:

CUT TO:



























32. INT. POLICE JAIL - VISITOR'S ROOM - DAY

Cathy meets with CURTIS JACKSON, 36, a black and facetious
ex-con, through the wire-mesh of the visiting room.


JACKSON
				(laughing)
			That's a new one to me.  Since
			when does the D.A.'s office go
			around trying to get people off.
				(figuring it out)
			I know, it's some kind of new
			psychology, right?


CATHY
				(all business)
			How long were you out of prison?


JACKSON
			Almost a year.


CATHY
			Your parole officer tells me that
			You've been meeting regularly.

Jackson gives her a look out of the corner of his eye.
Then, unsure of what she's driving at, he reverts to
sarcasm:


JACKSON
			Every week, ma'am.  And I've also
			been helpin' little old ladies
			'cross the street, and going to
			Church every Sunday - - repent
			my sins.

The heat rises in Cathy's throat and face.  She remembers
what a man like this once did to her.














CATHY
			Let's get this straight...  A
			man who sells drugs to kids
			doesn't deserve to see the
			light of day... ever.  They say
			you're rehabilitated.
			Congratulations.  But if it
			were up to me, I would've
			buried you.
				(beat)
			Now I'm here because I don't think
			you killed Detective Perotta, and
			I want to find out who did.  And
			you're going to help me.

Jackson looks put upon, rearranges himself in the chair.


JACKSON
			Lotta good it'll do... 


CATHY
				(beat)
			Tell me about these threats you
			were supposed to have made against
			Perotta.

JACKSON
			Man. . . that was a long time ago.
			It was stupid. . . He was the cop
			that busted me.  I was mad. . .
			said some stupid things, you
			know. 

CATHY
			What was the gun doing in
			your car?


JACKSON
			How the hell do I know?  Somebody
			put it there. 

CATHY
			Any ideas who?

JACKSON
			What you want, a list?

CATHY
				(cold stare; then)
			Yeah, that's exactly what I want.

ON Jackson, reacting to this ballsy lady, we:

CUT TO:
33. EXT. NYPD PRECINCT - ESTABLISHING - DAY

The flag waves at half-mast.  Over this:

CATHY'S VOICE
			Excuse me, I'm looking for
			Detective Keller.

34. INT. PRECINCT - SQUAD ROOM - DAY

Cathy is at the tall front desk, scrambling among several
people trying to get the attention of SERGEANT JESSICA
WALKER.  A mounted bulletin board reads:  "Memorial Service
For Lt. Tony Perotta -- 3:00 Tuesday -- St. Mary's."

(PRODUCTION NOTE: In this and all following precinct
scenes, there should be a gritty, almost stylized look and
sound of chaotic activity - - in extreme contrast to the
romantic lyricism of the world below.)


COOPER
				(pointing)
			Third desk on the right.

Amid the cacophony of voices, ringing telephones, and
Computer printers, Cathy wends her way through the various
Desks and booking areas to Keller's desk.


CATHY
			Detective Keller.

Keller looks up from a thick sheaf of papers, and puts
down his pen.


KELLER
			That's me.

CATHY
				(extending her hand)
			I'm Catherine Chandler, from
			The D.A.'s office.

They shake.

CATHY
			I'm sorry about Lieutenant
			Perotta.

KELLER
			Yeah.  Me too.  Eight years is
			A long time.
				(then)
			You have anything to do with
			nailing Jackson?
CATHY
			-- Yes...
KELLER
			I appreciate it.  We all do.
			Believe me: it's no small
			consolation.
CATHY
			Detective Keller - -
				(braces herself, then)
			I don't think Curtis Jackson
			killed your partner.
KELLER
			What're you talking about?

CATHY
			We may have an eyewitness

Keller isn't sure how to take this, so he takes it slow.

KELLER
			What eye witness?
				(when Cathy doesn't
				 answer immediately)
			C'mon, tell me: who?  Who says
			Jackson didn't do it?

CATHY
			I can't disclose that information
			yet.

KELLER
			What eye witness?
				(when Cathy doesn't
				 answer immediately)
			C'mon, tell me: who?  Who says
			Jackson didn't do it?

CATHY
			I can't disclose that information
			yet.

KELLER
				(flashing)
			Jackson killed my partner.  He
			had it out for Tony.  Everyone
			knows it.  They just about
			caught him in the act.

CATHY
			He claims he was set up.

Keller doesn't have to pretend: this is definitely news
to him.  He runs his fingers through his hair, regains his
composure.  Then:

KELLER
			Look. I'm sorry I flew off.


CATHY
				(her heart goes out to
			   	 him)
			I understand.

KELLER
			It's just, you come here and drop
			This on me like a ton of bricks.
			Now I don't know what to think.

CATHY
			If you have a few minutes, I'd
			like to ask you some questions
			about recent cases, who else might
			have had a motive.  Just
			preliminary, but it might give
			me a place to start.


KELLER
				(nods, then)
			Sure:  I got a couple minutes...


He puts on an I'll-do-what's-best face, but in his eyes
there's an acute dread.  He's wondering what the hell he's
going to do.

CUT TO:


35. INT. FATHER'S CHAMBER - DAY

CAMERA FINDS Vincent, Father, and Laura intimately
gathered in the golden light of the chamber.
Laura's manner continues to be hesitant and shy.
Sometimes when she signs too quickly, Vincent must
translate for gather's benefit.


VINCENT
			Father and I have talked a long
			time.  The decision... will have
			to be yours, Laura.


A part of Laura is terrified by the responsibility, and
her eyes wander away from the reality of the conversation.
After a moment, Father leans over and touches her
shoulder, so that she can read his lips as he speaks.








FATHER
			Laura... this place, our
			world, means different things
			to different people.  For some,
			it's a place of healing and
			safety -- a way station in
			their lives.  For others...
				(indicating himself)
			... it's a home.
				(beat)
			But all of us reach a point --
			a moment in time -- when we must
			define for ourselves what this
			place means to us.  Perhaps now
			is your time to decide... 


					
Laura considers this.  Then:



LAURA
				(signing to Father)
			If I decide to go, may I come
			back?


Father smiles.  Then, compassionately:



FATHER
			Of course you can come back...
				(then)
			... if you decide to go.



Laura looks down into her lap.  Grasping her hands
tightly together.  The weight of the decision and the
subtle tension in the air between Father and Vincent
combine to make her uneasy.  Then:













LAURA
				(signing)
			I don't know what to do.
				(beat)
			Tell me what to do, Vincent.


VINCENT
			I can't tell you what to do.
				(beat)
			But you are strong, Laura.  Your
			life... has made you powerful...
			in ways you can't even begin to
			imagine...


LAURA
				(signing)
			If I can't imagine, how do I know 
			it's true?


This is too complicated for Father's ASL vocabulary.  He
turns to Vincent.


FATHER
			Vincent?


VINCENT
			If she can't imagine her strength,
			how does she know it's true?
				(to Laura)
			Laura... you know by learning...
			by following what your heart tells
			you is right... by going... where
			you have to go.



Laura takes a long moment to consider this.  Then:



LAURA 
				(beat; signing)
			I love you both.










There's no need for a translation --  the gestures are
more evocative than the words.


CUT TO:



36. INT. D.A.'S OFFICE - DAY

Cathy is going over a file with several COLLEAGUES when
Maxwell approaches the group.  Seething.  In fact we've
never seen him so cold-ass mad.


MAXWELL

			Hey, Radcliffe.  Got a sec?


CATHY
				(to others)
			Excuse me.



37. OMITTED




38. MOVING


with Cathy and Maxwell, as he ushers her by the arm in
tense silence to a quiet corner, away from the human
traffic.  Then:

















MAXWELL
			What the hell do you think you're
			doing?


CATHY
			Let go of me.

MAXWELL
			Answer me.

CATHY
				(firm)
			First let go.

Maxwell releases his grip.  Momentary remorse.  Then he
exhales some of his anger.  But only some.

MAXWELL
			I don't understand you, Radcliffe.
			Yesterday everything's beautiful.
			We close a major investigation
			like in a textbook.  Today I find
			out you've been sniffing around
			behind my back.

CATHY
			I just wanted to have something
			solid before I came to you.
				(beat)
			I had second thoughts.

MAXWELL
			Why didn't you tell me about them
			yesterday?

CATHY
			Because yesterday I didn't know
			there was a witness.

MAXWELL
			Whoa... back up.

CATHY
			There was a witness, Joe.

MAXWELL
				(skeptical)
			Can you produce this witness?

CATHY
				(beat; troubled)
			Not yet.

Which only confirms Maxwell's doubts.  He shakes his head.



MAXWELL
			I've been playing this game a
			little longer than you.  We've
			got a cop killer cold, open and
			shut...
				(emphatic)
			You're blowing it.

CATHY
				(angry)
			What about due process, Joe?  And
			reasonable doubt?  Or do you just
			want me to go out and hang Jackson
			now and save you the trouble?

MAXWELL
			You still don't get it...
				(the bottom line)
			Jackson killed a cop.

CATHY
			If he's innocent what difference
			does that make?

MAXWELL
				(imperitive)
			Leave it alone.  For your sake.

CATHY
			My sake?  Isn't there a hidden
			agenda here we're not talking
			about?  Like how the truth might
			make for an embarrassing press
			conference -- 


Cathy breaks off, knows she's out of line.  And Maxwell's
anger has passed into a deeper realm.  He speaks slowly.


MAXWELL
			My father was a cop.  Up in
			the South Bronx.  Fifty-second
			precinct.  He was just getting
			off one morning when two guys
			jumped him.  Took his gun and
			his watch, slit his throat, and
			left him to bleed to death.
			There was no arrest.  Nobody
			went to trial.  They were
			fourteen years old.
				(beat)
			So was I.




He regards Cathy for a moment before starting away.

CATHY
				(calling after him)
			Joe.


But Maxwell is already gone.


CATHY
				(to herself; wistful
				 remorse)
			Joe...


On Cathy, powerfully disturbed by what has just happened,
we:			


CUT TO: 
			

39. A WORLD GLOBE

circa 1900, on a wooden floor stand.  CAMERA PANS to find
Laura, seated before her dressing table mirror, staring
intently at her reflection.  And we are:

INT. TUNNELS - LAURA'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

About the size of Vincent's chamber, decorated in much
the same way as any young girl's bedroom might be.  Laura
takes a long time there, trying to reconcile the face
staring back at her in the looking glass with what she
feels about herself.  She is a child, but what she regards
in the mirror is a woman emerging...

She leans closer to herself.  Gently touches her mouth.
Something bubbles tentatively on her lips before they go
still again.  She exhales.  Then a sound - - a soul-deep
utterance issues from her lips, incomprehensible OUW - - then
again, until we can understand what she is trying to say.


LAURA		
			Laura...

It is an affirmation of her identity, tentative yet
somehow bold.  And as the edges of her mouth sneak up into
a smile, we:


CUT TO:




40. EXT. CATHY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Cathy slides out of a cab and, heels clacking on the
pavement, crosses the sidewalk and enters her building.



41. INT. CATHY'S BUILDING - CLOSE ON ELEVATOR DOOR - NIGHT

As they whoosh open and Cathy steps out into the corridor.
She heads for her apartment door.  Balancing her briefcase
on her knee, she fishes for her key and finally manages
to open the door.  She reaches inside to switch on the
lights.  But as soon as they go on,  A GLOVED HAND kills
them and then grabs Cathy's wrist, yanking her into:



42. INT. CATHY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
Where she is spun into another man's arms, slamming face
first into a wall, and pinned there.  Both are stocking-
faced - - and Yates crosses through a shaft of liquid
moonlight and approaches her in the deep shadow.


YATES
				(to Davis)
			Turn her around.


Davis puts Cathy in a full nelson and roughly turns her
around to face Yates.


YATES
			The only thing worse than a cop
			killer is somebody who covers for
			one... so back off.


As he backhands Cathy across the face.  Cathy sags at the
blow and would drop to the floor if it weren't for Davis
holding her up.  She recovers and raises her head to face
Yates, spitting out the words:


CATHY

			If you think this is going to stop
			me...


but before she gets out the next syllable, Davis pushes
her into Yates, who punches her in the stomach.  Cathy
sinks to her knees, doubling over, groping for breath.
43. ANOTHER ANGLE

of Yates from the waist up.  We understand but don't see
him kick Cathy... before stealing out, leaving Cathy
unconscious, moaning on the floor.

TIME LAPSE DISSOLVE:

44. VINCENT

minutes later, surges through the balcony doors.  He
rushes to Cathy's fallen figure, bends down to her.  His
voice trembles with concern.

VINCENT
			Catherine...

She rolls her head to look up at him


CATHY
				(weakly)
			I'm alright.  I think.

She tries to move, but the pain overwhelms her, and she
sags.  Vincent slides his arms under her body, and with no
visible effort lifts her up.  He carries her across the
darkened living room and into her bedroom...

where he lays her on the bed.  here, too, the moonlight
seeps in, making everything seem ghostly transparent.

TIME LAPSE DISSOLVE

Vincent gently presses a cool, damp cloth to Cathy's
forehead.  He removes it and listens for a beat.  Thinking
she's finally asleep, he begins to back away.


CATHY
				(barely audible)
			Vincent... 

He bends over her to listen.

CATHY
			Please stay... I need you close.

VINCENT
			I'll watch over you... don't
			worry.  Just sleep.

Cathy, now comforted, closes her eyes.  Vincent retreats
to stand -- facing her -- on the two steps leading to the
balcony.

TIME LAPSE DISSOLVE:


45. WIDER ANGLE

of the scene.  Cathy sleeping, and Vincent, her sentry-
lover, watching over her in the moonlight, keeping her
safe.

FADE OUT

			   END OF ACT TWO














































				    ACT THREE


FADE IN:

45A. - 45B. OMITTED

46. INT. LAURA'S CHAMBER - DAY

An old knapsack is open and half-packed on Laura's single
bed.  From a low bureau, she removes a blue flower-print
dress, folds it delicately, and places it in the knapsack.
Her eyes survey the room, making sure she hasn't forgotten
anything, she picks up her book of "sign", puts it in,
and then, she closes the knapsack, one strap at a time.
It's done.  The finality of this act surprises her, and
she abruptly sits down on the bed.  After a moment, her
hand moves slowly along the bedspread until she finally
clutches the knapsack handle.  She rises and moves to the
chamber entrance.  There she turns.

HER POV

One last look at the room that has been her home for many
years.


RESUME SCENE


As she leaves the chamber.


DISSOLVE TO:


47. INT. - TUNNELS - DAY

The knapsack draped over her shoulder, Laura walks with
Vincent down a long stretch of tunnel.  They are
silhouettes against the bright light glowing at the tunnel's
end.  Laura hesitates for a moment, looking back over her
shoulder, before she and Vincent merge into the light.


CUT TO:


48. INT. SUB-BASEMENT OF CATHY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Laura and Vincent arrive at the transition point - the
place of migration from one world to the next.  They stop
and share a moment of the silence that is with Laura
always - both of them understanding the significance of
her next few steps.  After a beat, Vincent gestures to
the opening:

VINCENT
			This is where you go out...

Laura seems unsure.


VINCENT
			You can still change your mind...

Determined, Laura shakes her head.

VINCENT
			Then try not to worry, you'll
			be safe, I'll be near... The
			woman I told you about is
			waiting...

LAURA
				(signing)
			Catherine...

VINCENT
			Yes, Catherine...

Long beat. Then:

LAURA
				(signing)
			Vincent, there's so much I have
			to thank you for.

VINCENT
			You have only yourself to thank...
			and to be proud of...
				(beat)
			Sometimes... events in our lives
			show us what we've known all
			along.  This last year... I've
			felt it in you:  a need... to
			see a life beyond our tunnels and
			chambers.
				(then)
			You knew inside yourself that it
			was time...

Laura is grateful for the understanding.  Vincent looks up
when he hears footsteps descending from above.


48A.VINCENT'S POV

Cathy appears at the far end of the sub-basement.

48B.RESUME SCENE

Laura also sees Cathy, and then turns back to Vincent.

LAURA
				(signing)
			Until we see each other, I will
			miss you.

VINCENT
			Until we see each other, I will
			miss you, too.

And they embrace.  Then, Laura pulls back and stoops down
to pick up her suitcase.

VINCENT'S POV - LAURA

Walking away -- tall and strong - towards Cathy.  She
puts her hand behind her back and signs: "I love you."

ON VINCENT

Watching her go.

 
VINCENT
			I love you too.


VINCENT'S POV

As Laura reaches Cathy and together they start up the
stairs.

CUT TO:

49. EXT. CATHY'S TERRACE - NIGHT

Laura looks out over the jewelled city, her hair blown by
the cool night breeze.  As Cathy comes out from the living
room...

CATHY
			Laura, I've -

She breaks off and stops with the realization that Laura
can't hear her.  Cathy wears the evidence from the
previous night's attack:  discoloration under one eye, a
cut lip.  She approaches Laura, who now turns to face
Cathy.  (Note:  Cathy enunciates her words to Laura
carefully, but not condescendingly.)

CATHY
			Are you cold?

Laura shakes her head - then holds up her hand, thumb
and forefinger about an inch apart to admit that she is
a little cold.  Cathy smiles.




CATHY
			Come inside.  I made some hot
			chocolate.


Laura nods, and follows Cathy inside.


50. INT. CATHY'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

From a service on the coffee table, Cathy hands Laura one
of two steaming mugs, taking the other for herself.



CATHY
			Tomorrow you'll have to give a
			statement to the police.  After
			that is when it gets really tough
			the depositions and the trial.
			Lawyers aren't always the nicest
			people.	


Laura gestures to Cathy.


CATHY
			Me?  I'm not so brave.  A little
			stubborn, maybe...


Laura smiles -- but then turns serious as she regards
Cathy, visibly disturbed.  Her mouth opens, as if she's
about to speak.


CATHY
				(sensing)
			You want to say something...


Laura tentatively reaches out and touches the bruises on
Cathy's face.  It's as if she shares Cathy's pain.  She
shakes her head and gestures: why?


CATHY
			Why?  Because no one wants me on
			this case except me.


Laura indicates herself.  Cathy smiles.			



CATHY
			Until now.  What we're doing is
			good, Laura, but it's not very
			popular.
				(touching her bruised
			       face)
			I guess this is either a badge
			of bravery or a sign of
			stubborness.


LAURA
				(signing)
			You're still very beautiful.


CATHY
				(trying to translate)
			I'm... something.
				(shakes her head,
				 frustrated laugh)
			I don't understand.


Laura scratches her palm with her forefinger.  Cathy
understands, and digs out a note pad and a pen from a side
table drawer.  She hands these to Laura, who scribbles
something, then turns it toward Catherine.


50A.INSERT PAGE (CATHY'S POV)

which reads "I said: you're still very beautiful"



50B.RESUME SCENE

as Cathy shares a warm moment with Laura.


CATHY
			Thank you.

Laura puts her hand to Cathy's lips -- and then shows her
the sign for "thank you."  Cathy repeats the sign.  And
on the bond that's being forged between them, we:


CUT TO:


51. - 52C. OMITTED




52D.EXT. NYPD PRECINCT - TO ESTABLISH - DAY

A clear, late-autumn morning -- and the flag, still at
half-mast.


CUT TO: 


53. A RASTAFARIAN

is hustled PAST CAMERA by a pair of UNIFORMS, and we are:


INT. NYPD PRECINCT - SQUAD ROOM - DAY

A melange of cops, crooks, and victims, whose voices and
movements combine to create a white noise over which
occasional words can be discerned.  From this human salad,
Cathy and Laura emerge: Laura is now in a knee-length blue
dress.  Cathy is evidently known here -- perhaps by the
bruises on her face: the cops seated at these desks look
up at her, one by one.


54. CATHY'S POV - MOVING

past the intimidating faces.


55. RESUME SCENE - MOVING -CONTINUOUS

as Cathy is bumped, hard, by a PLAIN-CLOTHES OFFICER.


OFFICER
				(pure ice)
			I'm sorry, Miss Chandler.


CATHY
			The hell you are.

Cathy holds her own and stares him down, until he passes.
Cathy looks at Laura, who affirms her support with a look.
Cathy takes a deep breath as they continue, proceeding
Down.
				
56. AN ADJACENT CORRIDOR

that's mustard-yellow and narrow.  They stop at the third
door on the right.  Stenciled on the thick frosted grass
are the words INTERROGATION ROOM 5.  Cathy and Laura
exchange a last look before Cathy opens the door and:


57. INT. INTERROGATION ROOM 5 - CONTINUOUS

as Cathy and Laura enter the small, sterile room which,
behind the closed door, offers some quiet refuge from the
constant chaos outside.  A long rectangular table is
centered here, at which two men (GRIGGS and Homocide
Detective SNYDER) and one woman are seated.  Griggs
has several papers fanned out before him, a pen at the
ready.  At one end of the table stands a tripoded video
camera, hooked up to a monitor which frames the empty
chair at the other end of the table.

Joe Maxwell brings his chair down on all fours, stands,
and approaches Cathy and Laura.  His manner is cool and
detached.  Exaggeratedly professional.

MAXWELL
			Miss Chandler, this is Detective
			Snyder - he'll be conducting
			the interrogation - Sergeant
			Griggs, and Sharon Lewis, from
			Social Services.  She's here to
			interpret for the witness. 

CATHY
				(to all of them)
			Hello. 
				(beat)
			This is Laura Williams.

Laura nods curtly to everyone.


SHARON
				(signing and speaking)
			Please have a seat, Laura.

Laura looks at Cathy who gives her a nod of quiet strength
and silent assurance.  Laura sits in the empty chair.
Snyder, the hard-assed veteran in charge of the case, now
rises and circles around Laura.  Griggs stands and moves
to the video camera.

SNYDER
				(turning away from
				 Laura; to Griggs)
			We ready to go?

Before Griggs has a chance to respond, Cathy interjects.

CATHY
			Detective.

Snyder angles his head toward Cathy

CATHY
			Laura's deaf -

SNYDER
				(overlapping)
			We know that...

CATHY
				(overlapping)
			... and no one speaks in here
			without facing her first.


Snyder glares at Cathy, but complies with her demand



SNYDER
			All set, Larry?

GRIGGS
			You can start anytime.

Snyder half-sits on the table.


SNYDER
			Okay, Laura.  Why don't you start
			by telling us what you saw... in
			your own words.

LAURA
				(signing)
			I saw somebody kill a man.


Snyder waits for more, but Laura is still nervous and
her hands remain still.  Snyder shoots a skeptical look
to Maxwell.  Then, his attention returns to Laura.


SNYDER
			And where did you see this happen?


LAURA
				(signing)
			It was on Cedar Street, near
			the corner of Edgemont.

SHARON
			It was on Cedar Street... near
			the corner of Edgemont.


SNYDER
			Would you describe for us what
			You saw?	


LAURA
				(signing)
			There were two men.  One had a
			gun.  And I saw him reach inside
			a car and shoot the other man.



Snyder straightens - Laura's just given a crucial piece
Of testimony.


SNYDER
			I'm sorry would you repeat the
			last part... about the car.


Laura doesn't quite understand and looks to Sharon, who
signs her Snyder's question.  Laura nods and starts
again.


LAURA
				(signing)
			The man who was shot... was
			sitting in a car.

SHARON
			The man who was shot was sitting
			in a car. 


Snyder exhales sharply and addresses Maxwell in a low
urgent tone.


SNYDER
			Joe, that information hasn't been
			made public yet.  There's no way
			she could have known that Perotta
			was killed in his car.
				(beat)
			I think you got the real thing
			here.


Maxwell stirs in his chair and gives Cathy an
acknowledging look.  Now, with more respect than before.


SNYDER
			Okay, Laura, let's start at the
			beginning.




58. CLOSE - VIDEO MONITOR

as Laura's image appears on the screen, looking off at
the detective.  Even here, rendered in two-dimensional
blue light, Laura's fear is almost palpable.  But so is
her strength.  And as she musters the courage to start
at the beginning, we:

CUT TO:

59. INT. POLICE PRECINCT - LATER

From the relative sanctuary and sanity of the interrogation
room, Cathy and Laura reenter the chaos of the squad room
jungle.  Cathy is charged by Laura's convincing
performance and by the stamina and courage of her new
friend.  As soon as the door to the interrogation room closes
behind them, she takes Laura by the shoulders. 


CATHY
			You did great.

Laura isn't so sure


CATHY
			Really.  No jury in the world
			could discount that testimony.


Cathy's genuine enthusiasm convinces Laura, and her eyes
shine deeply when she smiles.  Cathy affectionately
squeezes Laura's shoulders, before they start through the
human traffic for the station exit... 


60. ANOTHER ANGLE

shows Cathy and Laura as they round a section of booking
tables, pass by the desk sergeant, and are on the home
stretch... when a young, UNIFORMED COP catches up with
them.

COSTANZO
				(to Cathy)
			Excuse me.

He positions himself between them and the station
Entrance.

COSTANZO
			Are you Catherine Chandler?

CATHY
			Yes I am.
COSTANZO
			There's a call for you.


Cathy's first instinct is to glance protectively at Laura.

Then:

CATHY
				(to Cop)
			Who is it?

COSTANZO
			Your office.


He points to an empty cubicle way across the squad room.


COSTANZO
			Take it over there if you want.
			Line five.


Cathy turns her attention to Laura, guiding her to a low-
backed bench against a wall.


CATHY
			You sit here.  I'll be right
			back, okay?


Laura nods and sits down.  When Cathy turns away, the cop
is still there.


COSTANZO
			Come on, follow me...


Which Cathy does... the length of the squad room... to
the unoccupied desk and the blinking phone.


COSTANZO
			Line five.

CATHY
			Thanks.


Cathy punches the line and picks up the receiver.

CATHY(into phone)
			Hello... Hi Mary...  



61. BACK TO LAURA - SLIGHT OVERCRANK


sitting straight-backed on the bench, as she watches Cathy
move from one phone to the next.  A sixth-sense is
operating in her head.  She knows she's being watched.
She doesn't want to... she tries not to... but she has
to look across to:



62. HER POV - ACROSS THE CONGESTED SQUAD ROOM  - MOS

(Post Production Note:  All Laura's POV shots should be
accompanied by silence to exaggerate her sense of
alienation and to convey her heightened terror.)
A man's face (Yates'), a pair of eyes boring into her.



63. RESUME LAURA


quickly dropping her gaze.  And then... slowly... in her
face, we see the terrifying connection made: the eyes
looking at her are the eyes of the killer, and they are
also the eyes of a policeman.  The fear heaves up in her
stomach and throat like a nausea.  She forces herself to
look again, and this time the eye contact with Yates is
laser-intense.  Shakily, she rises to her feet and scans
the room for Cathy.  No sign of her.  She looks back at
Yates.
























63A.HER POV

Yates has started toward her.


63B. - 63C. OMITTED


64. RESUME CATHY - IN THE CUBICLE

holding the receiver to her ear with her shoulder, jotting
something down in her calendar.



CATHY
			... and the new hearing date is
			set for Thursday at five.  No,
			I got it.  Thanks, Mary.

And she hangs up the phone.  She steps out into the squad
room, starting back towards Laura.  As she grows near, we
catch glimpses - through the ebb and flow of the human
tide - of: 

65. HER POV

the empty bench


66. RESUME CATHY

as her pace quickens, the first sparks of panic firing
in her breast.  She reaches the bench, her eyes scanning
the surrounding area for a sign of Laura.  She wheels
around... looking...looking, as the panic consumes her,
and she turns a small, tight circle in the middle of the
precinct confusion.  Then, on impulse, she bolts out of
the squad room.


66A.EXT. POLICE PRECINCT - CONTINUOUS

Cathy rushes down the stairs to street-level.  Her head
swings one way and then the other, surveying the
lunch-time crowd.  No sign of Laura.  CAMERA PULLS BACK
to show her bewildered and enraged in the human throng.

67. - 69. OMITTED

FADE OUT

			 END OF ACT THREE





					ACT FOUR



FADE IN:

70. INT. VINCENT'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

Catherine sits at the edge of Vincent's bed.  She stares
off into herself, her face drained, her body wracked.
Vincent stands several feet away.



VINCENT
			Don't blame yourself,
			Catherine.


			
CATHERINE
				(distraught)
			What could be safer than a
			police station..?



VINCENT
			... The blame, Catherine,
			rests only on those who have			
			Laura.



Cathy nods.  But the weight of the past few days and of
Laura's abduction is still too heavy a burden.  Tears
Start rolling down her face.  She turns away.



CATHY
			I don't know what to do.



VINCENT		
			You've told the police.  It's
			All you can do for now.


CATHY
			They have no idea where to
			even start looking.  She could
			be anywhere.  She could be --



Cathy breaks off.  The last possibility is unutterable.


VINCENT
			Don't even think of it.

CATHY
				(wiping tears)
			I have to go back.
				(off Vincent's
			  	 reluctance)
			Please, Vincent. Take me back.

Beat.  Then Vincent nods.  Knows he has no choice, as we:

CUT TO:

71. INT. TUNNELS - NIGHT

Vincent escorts Cathy in silence along a narrow and dark
Stretch of tunnel.  Beside them, a cluster of pipes snake
Along the dank walls.  All is quiet as Vincent and Cathy
Proceed upward.  Then, gently, a rhythmic and ordered
CLANKING comes over the pipes, growing in urgency and
Volume.  Vincent stops dead in his tracks to listen.

CATHY
			Vincent... what is it?

VINCENT
			Shh...


Vincent continues to listen.


VINCENT
			There's a message... from
			Pascal.
				(then)
			Come with me, quickly.


They turn on their heels and run together, back the way
They came, into the bowels of the earth.


72. INT. YATES' HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Yates and Davis are listening to Keller, who's pacing... 


KELLER
			I don't believe this.  What are
			we doing?

YATES
			Only what's necessary.  Nothing
			more and nothing less.
Over this, we HEAR a metallic clanking.  The noise only
Sharpens the fine edge that they're already on.


KELLER
				(to Yates; flashing)
			Why didn't you tell us there was
			a witness --

YATES
				(right back)
			What difference would that've
			made?
				(off Keller's silence)
			I'll tell you: zip.


As the CLANKING continues o.s....			


YATES
			We'd be right where we are now.
				(to Davis; snapping)
			Will you tell her to shut up!


DAVIS
				(with quiet strength)
			Hey, don't talk to me like that.


Beat.  Yates nods.  And Davis rises and moves into			


73. THE BOILER ROOM

where Laura sits in shadow, each wrist handcuffed to a
pipe.  She concentrates, tapping out a message by striking
the pipes with her steel-bound wrists.

DAVIS (O.S.)
			Hey, shut up.

But Laura doesn't hear... until Davis' legs ENTER FRAME 
and he squats down to catch her wrist.  She looks up,
terrified.

DAVIS
				(as if to a dog)
			No.

Laura stops, but her eyes turn cold and defiant, as we:

CUT TO:
74. OMITTED

75. INT. TUNNELS - PASCAL'S PIPE CHAMBER - NIGHT

Vincent and Cathy enter the organ-like pipe chamber.
Pascal is huddled in a corner, his ear pressed to a pipe.
The room is absolutely still, SILENT - no one is sending
Any messages.


VINCENT
			Pascal...


Pascal turns to face him.


PASCAL
			I've put out an emergency all-
			quiet signal...


VINCENT
			Was it Laura?


PASCAL
				(nodding)
			We think so.  It was Outpost Six
			that picked up her S.O.S. when
			the tapping stopped.

CATHY
			Isn't there anything we can do?


PASCAL
				(shrugs)
			Wait...
				(off her disappointment)
			But we're all waiting together.

CUT TO:


75A.OMITTED


75B.A COLT .38 PYTHON

is unwrapped from an oil cloth...


YATES(O.S.)
			
			Maggie and the kids are gone 'til
			tomorrow, so now's the time.

76. INT. YATES BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

Yates screws on a silencer with cold determination --
while Keller shakes his head.


KELLER
			No way.  I can't let you do this.

Yates ignores him as he loads the gun, a bullet at a time.
So Keller turns to Davis.


KELLER
				(indicating Laura)
			Jack, look at her.  She's just
			a girl.  What is she, a year older
			than Nancy?  Two?	


Davis reacts with a pang of remorse.


YATES
				(exploding)
			Shut up!

As Yates moves threateningly to Keller...


YATES
			I'm getting a little damn sick
			of having to sugar coat everything
			for you.  That's not my
			responsibility.


76A.ANGLE - LAURA

watching the heated argument.

YATES(O.S.)
			You wanted it in the beginning,
			just like the rest of us, for all
			the same reasons: you gotta wife,
			car, kids, mortgage payments --
			all starting to weight heavy on
			a cop's salary.

Laura taps once -- then again, glancing furtively toward
the outer room.

76B.LAURA'S POV

where Yates and Keller argue MOS, leaving Laura's tapping
unheeded.


76C.RESUME LAURA

as she continues tapping



CUT TO:



76D.- 76E. OMITTED



76F.INT. PASCAL'S PIPE CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS

as one of the pipes comes alive.  Pascal moves closer to
listen as the tapping continues:



PASCAL
			That's it.  They've found her.
			She's in... Brooklyn


Cathy turns hopefully to Vincent, but there's only the rustle
of his cloak at the entrance, as we:



CUT TO:


76G.INT. YATES' HOUSE - BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS


KELLER
			If you kill that girl, the blood's
			on your hands

YATES
			You know the law as well as me.
			It's on all of our hands.


Long, hard beat.  Keller shakes his head.



KELLER
			No.  Not this time.  I'm leaving.




YATES
			You're not going anywhere.

KELLER
			Stop me.

He turns his back on Yates and starts for the door.
Slowly, Yates raises the silenced pistol and aims at the
retreating Keller.

77. KELLER

glances at Laura as he goes.  When he reaches the door, he
puts his hand on the now and squeezes his eyes shut...
expecting the bullet in his back, and:

78. YATES

holds the gun steady.  Davis moves INTO FRAME, and grasps
Yates' forearm, shaking his head.


DAVIS
				(low even)
			Forget it, man.


79. KELLER

opens his eyes.  He turns the knob and exits the basement
alive.

CUT TO:


79A.INT. TUNNELS - VINCENT - CONTINUOUS

running at great speed...


CUT TO:


80. EXT. YATES' HOUSE - NIGHT

Keller emerges from the house, and takes a hopeless look
over his shoulder before walking off into the moonlit
night.


80A.INT. YATES' HOUSE - BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

YATES
			You should've let me...


DAVIS
				(overriding)
			C'mon, man, you're talking crazy.

YATES
			Yeah?  Whatta you think he's gonna
			do now?  Go to confession?


Yates shakes his head, disgusted that he allowed Keller
to leave.  And Davis' face reveals that Yates' argument,
however grim, makes perfect sense.  He stares away.


DAVIS
			I'll go get him --

Yates stops him.


YATES
			No.  I'll take care of it as
			soon as I'm done here.

CUT TO:


80B.EXT SUBWAY TUNNEL

as Vincent hurtles through the tunnel, atop a subway car.
and we:

CUT TO:

81. OMITTED

82. IN YATES' HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Yates stands at the entrance to the boiler room, his gun
pointed at Laura -- Davis next to him, his face averted
-- when the lights go off.  Black water darkness, except
for shafts of moonlight which spill in through two transom
windows...

DAVIS
			What the --

YATES
			Keller.


A shadow passes before the north window.  Then a sound.
Yates squints into the darkness to find it's source.

82A.HIS POV

stillness, moonlight, and tilting shadows.

82B.RESUME SCENE

as Davis, never losing touch with the wall, cranes closer
to Yates.


YATES
				(fever-pitch)
			C'mon, Danny. Do it.


Yates steps back toward the boiler room.  Gives a nervous
nod to Davis, as he raises the gun to:


82C.LAURA

huddled in the darkness, looking away, wimpering


82D.CU - THE GUN

and Yates' finger tightening around the trigger - when
Vincent's hand FLASHES INTO FRAME, batting the gun away as
it fires. 


82E.ANGLE - DAVIS

he falls, hit.


82F.YATES

clutches his wrist, then looks up, completely stunned,
as:


82G.VINCENT

steps from the shadows.  Yates scrambles for his gun,
illuminated a few yards away in a puddle of moonlight.
He straightens, tries to steady the gun on Vincent's
advancing figure, but that hand doesn't work -- so he
shifts hands, aims for a second that is shattered forever
when Vincent sidesteps, and catches Yates' head with a
powerful forehand, and a roar that echoes through the
room.


82H.CU - VINCENT'S EYES

as they narrow at the sight of Yates' lifeless body
splayed on the floor.


82I.RESUME SCENE

as Vincent moves to Laura, who now turns to see.  Vincent
kneels before her, as she wraps her free arm around his
neck.  As SIRENS begin to wail in the distance, fast
approaching, we:

FADE OUT


















































FADE IN:


82J.EXT. D.A.'S OFFICE - ESTABLISHING - DAY


83. - 88. omitted


89. INT. D.A.'S OFFICE - CLOSE ON CATHY - DAY

drinking from a water fountain.  She straightens and
turns, when:


90. ANOTHER ANGLE

as she nearly bumps into Maxwell.

CATHY
				(startled)
			Joe --
			
There's an  awkward moment between them.  They both want to
say something.  Maxwell breaks the ice.


MAXWELL
			Look, I'm...
				(re: her healing
				 bruises)
			I'm sorry about what happened.
			I know it's been tough on you,
			and I didn't make it any easier.

CATHY
			No, you didn't.

MAXWELL
				(taking it on the chin)
			I let it get personal.  I was
			stubborn -- and I was wrong...

CATHY
				(smiles, extends her
				 hand)
			Apology accepted.

MAXWELL		Good.

They shake hands.  But something disturbing occurs to
Cathy.  She regards Maxwell a bit apprehensively, as:

CATHY
			Joe.  About your father -

MAXWELL
				(overriding; dissmisive)
			No.  I had no right bringing
			that up when I did.

CATHY
			You had every right.  And I'm
			glad you told me.

MAXWELL
			Yeah...

But Maxwell isn't at all comfortable with this kind of
intimacy.  Reading this, Cathy changes the subject.

CATHY
			Listen:  why don't you walk me
			to Moreno's office?  It's time
			for my weekly status report.

Maxwell nods and:
			

91. MOVING WITH THEM

through the busy office.


MAXWELL
			You might be interested to know:
			Jackson's being released today.

CATHY
				(beat)
			How'd the interrogation
			Go this morning?

MAXWELL
			He's glad it's over.  The two
			kilos of cocaine we recovered
			from Yates' basement came from
			the Ricardo bust last month --
			which both sets of partners
			were on.

CATHY
			So when Perotta started getting
			cold feet, Yates killed
			him and set up Jackson.
				(beat)
			Simple enough.

MAXWELL
			Only Yates didn't count on your
			witness being there.

They've come to Moreno's door, before which Cathy pauses.


MAXWELL
			Speaking of which: where on earth
			did you find that witness?

CATHY
			I didn't
				(smile; innocent shrug)
			She found me.


With which Cathy pushes open the door, and enters Moreno's
office.


CUT TO:


92. EXT CATHY'S TERRACE - NIGHT

Against the backdrop of the twinkling New York nightscape,
Cathy and Vincent talk.


VINCENT
			I don't think Father has
			reconciled himself...
				(beat)
			All he sees... is that he's losing
			one of his family.

CATHY
			But he wont stop Laura from
			coming up?

VINCENT
			No... that's not our way.

CATHY
			Where is she now?

VINCENT
			Below... gathering her things for
			tomorrow.
				(beat)
			One of the helpers will meet her,
			and look after her... until the
			time comes when she can live
			on her own.


Vincent turns to face the City.  Long beat.  Then:


CATHERINE
			What she did took great courage.

VINCENT
			Yes... Laura's a remarkable
			person.  She lives by feeling --
			everything - deeply.  She
			embraces life.  It's how she
			survives...

CATHERINE
				(sensing)
			You're worried about her going
			up into the world.

VINCENT
				(a beat)
			. . . Laura's strength is her
			vulnerability.

Cathy reflects on her own time of healing in the tunnel
world.  She steps closer to him.

CATHERINE
			I think she'll be just fine,
			Vincent.  I really do.
				(beat)
			She had a good teacher.

As Catherine regards Vincent tenderly, his face reflecting
the power of Catherine's comforting words, we:

DISSOLVE TO:


92A.INT. TUNNELS - DAY
Holding a small suitcase tightly in one hand, Laura
ascends a long stretch of tunnel.  She is a silhouette
against the bright light glowing at the tunnel's end.  Tall
and strong, she continues to walk, and even as she becomes
one with the light, she doesn't hesitate or look back...  

FADE OUT



				THE END




