                        SCREENPLAY FORMAT FOR TV SHOWS


                                      "Episode Title"


                                        Written by


                                      Name of Writer
























Name (of company, if applicable)Name of agent

Email Addressnumber of agent
Phone Numberdraft # if for spec.INT. ZOE AND MARK S PLACE, LIVING ROOM -  NIGHT11

The room has been trashed. In the middle of it all, Zoe lies 
dead. 

Eyes open. 

Surrounded by police officers. Paramedics. Flashing lights.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT22

Numbed, John Luther stumbles through the purgatorial night. 
Past the SPECTRAL HOMELESS, the HOOKERS, the HUSTLERS, the 
FILTH and the VOMIT. Not seeing any of it. 

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT33

Ian Reed sits in the empty locker room. Head in hands. 

EXT. ZOE AND MARK S PLACE (CRIME SCENE) - NIGHT44

Police vans. Police tape. Flashing lights. Despite the hour, 
some NEIGHBOURS have gathered to rubberneck. 

Mark North s car pulls up. Parks where it can - in the middle 
of the street. Mark gets out. Bewilderment -

- turning to concern. Then sick terror - as he sees the police 
activity is focussed on HIS HOUSE. He approaches a UNIFORMED 
OFFICER.

                                  MARK
                What s going on?

                                  UNIFORMED OFFICER
                You are?

                                  MARK
                  Mark. Mark North. I live here. Where s 
                Zoe?

Abruptly, he shakes off the officer - tries to shove through 
the barrier. Is hauled back by SEVERAL OFFICERS.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT4A4A

Luther approaches a CHURCH. One of those invisible parts of 
London. Ancient, stone-built, gnarled as an old tree.

Luther stares at it. The overall effect - the darkness and 
loneliness - is unutterably bleak. 

Finally, Luther weeps. A wail of animal pain. Unendurable.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 2.


INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT77

Reed comes to a decision. He opens his locker, using a SIX 
DIGIT COMBINATION. Inside, he stashes the UNCUT DIAMONDS he 
took from Sugarman s body. 

INT. SCU - NIGHT88

Ripley steps on to the Unit, coffee in hand. He s surprised to 
see it SO BUSY. He takes a moment to digest the TREMENDOUS 
URGENCY - PHONES RINGING, KEYBOARDS CLICKING, PASTY-FACED STAFF 
RUSHING. Then he heads towards Teller s office.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - NIGHT99

Ripley knocks and enters. Teller sees him - her stern eyes 
soften. Also here is a grim CORNISH. And a scruffy, melancholy 
MARTIN SCHENK.

                                  RIPLEY
                What s going on?

                                    CORNISH
                Just over an hour ago we received a 
                999 call. Gunshots fired, 23 Battersea 
                Park Road -

                                  TELLER
                - first responders found a woman dead. 
                Three gunshot wounds -

                                    CORNISH
                Zoe Luther.

                                  RIPLEY
                No -

                                  TELLER
                Don t speak up for him, Justin. Not 
                yet. 

She hits a key on her laptop. And we see a brief CCTV snippet 
of the CONFRONTATION BETWEEN ZOE AND LUTHER IN EPISODE 5.

                                  RIPLEY
                He argued with her. That doesn t mean 
                he did it.

                                  TELLER
                He was there. His fingerprints are all 
                over the place...in his wife s blood. 
                She s murdered. He s in the wind. What 
                does that tell you?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (emotional)
                He wouldn t do it. He wouldn t.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 3.


                                  SCHENK
                Painful as it may be, I m afraid the 
                evidence currently tells us otherwise. 

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT1010

Reed opens the locker door - PUTS SOMETHING INSIDE - A SMALL 
BLACK BOX ABOUT THE SIZE OF A MATCHBOX. Right at the back. 

Before he can shut the door -

Teller enters.

                                  TELLER
                You ready?

He takes a second. Fighting to keep his composure. The locker 
door is open in his hand, blocking the view inside. 

                                  REED
                Ready.

He shuts the locker door. Then exits with Teller.

INT. SCU - NIGHT1111

They stride through the busy unit, to her office.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE   NIGHT1212

Teller, Cornish, Schenk, Reed and Ripley. The lonesome sound of 
many late-night phones ringing off-screen.

                                    CORNISH
                First thing to know - we re in damage 
                control. We keep a airtight lid on 
                this until it s resolved. Which means 
                no press, no briefings. No leaks.

                                  REED
                The press will get there soon enough.

                                    CORNISH
                Which is why we need Luther in custody 
                without delay. I don t want any 
                 killer policeman at large  headlines, 
                are we clear? Martin here is in charge 
                of the investigation - you ll give him 
                your absolute cooperation.

A glance at Schenk, who s looking at his shoes. Miles away. 
Finding no joy in this.

                                  REED
                You need one of us there, too. On the 
                ground, to advise. Someone who knows 
                him.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 4.


                                    CORNISH
                And should that be you, Detective 
                Chief Inspector?

                                  REED
                  Absolutely it should be me. Yeah.

                                    CORNISH
                Do you think John Luther shot his wife 
                tonight?

                                  REED
                I can t say. Not for sure. It s too 
                early to be -

                                    CORNISH
                Exactly. The last thing I need is for 
                this operation to be hindered by your 
                  celebrated loyalty. DS Ripley, you ll 
                assist Detective Chief Superintendent 
                Schenk. 

                                  REED
                With respect - sorry Justin - but 
                Ripley -

                                    CORNISH
                - may not know Luther quite as well as 
                you, but he s a damn site better 
                placed to be nonpartisan. You ll 
                remain here, to advise as necessary.

                                  REED
                Sir -

                                    CORNISH
                I m not interested in saving John 
                Luther, Ian. I want the full force of 
                the law stamping down on his face 
                before sunrise - and I want your help 
                to do it. Are we clear on that? Good. 
                Then let s bring him in.

EXT. CHURCH - NIGHT1313

Luther is sitting in the shadow of the church, his back to the 
old stone wall. Emptied of everything.

But then HE STRAIGHTENS -

- at the sound of an APPROACHING POLICE SIREN.

He stands. Ready to run. 

The sound grows DISTANT as the police car heads in the OTHER 
DIRECTION. 

But Luther is on his feet now.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 5.


Either he sits down again...and gives up...or he moves. 

Takes action. 

So he sets his face in anger and hatred. Digs his hands deep 
into his pockets. And moves.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - NIGHT55

Reed is pacing in the empty office, muttering to himself under 
his breath. Trying to think it through, calculate the angles.  

He s startled by his PHONE RINGING. He digs it out. UNKNOWN 
NUMBER. He lets it go to VOICEMAIL.

INT. PHONE BOX, STREETS - NIGHT66

Luther is on the phone. Huddled, watchful.

                                  REED S VOICEMAIL
                This is DCI Reed. Leave a message.

                                  LUTHER
                I know what you did. You tried to make 
                it look like I killed her - because 
                you think, if they're coming for me, 
                then I can't come for you. But you re 
                wrong. I am coming for you. All I have 
                to do is stay free long enough. So 
                I ll see you. Soon. 

Hangs up. A moment of hate. Real hate. Then he exits.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - NIGHT6A6A

Reed listens to the message, then kills the call.

Thinks.

Sees RIPLEY AT HIS DESK, preparing to leave. 

Reed leaves the office.

INT. SCU, RIPLEY'S DESK - NIGHT1414

Joins Ripley. Takes his elbow. Huddles. Conspiratorial.

                                  REED
                So what do you think?

                                  RIPLEY
                I don t know what to think. 

                                  REED
                Me neither. But what gets me - if he 
                didn t do it, where the hell is he?                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 6.


                                  RIPLEY
                Perhaps he knows who did it. Went 
                after them.

Reed controls his reaction.

                                  REED
                Look, whatever s happening, if you 
                hear from him - contact me. Not 
                Teller, not Schenk. Just me. He needs 
                his friends. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Yeah, yeah of course. 

Reed nods, appreciating it. Lets him go. Ripley joins Schenk at 
the door, exits.

At the same time, a deeply shaken MARK NORTH is led on to the 
unit. 

Reed watches him with real pity. They make brief eye contact as 
Mark passes. 

Reed can t meet his gaze. He turns away, busies himself.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT1616

A fatigued Mark is being interviewed by Teller. 

                                  TELLER
                I m sorry for your loss. 

                                  MARK
                I didn t lose her. She was taken. Do 
                you have any idea why?

                                  TELLER
                The truth of it is, we re not here to 
                talk  why . That comes later. Right 
                now, it s all about  who .

                                  MARK
                Meaning - John Luther.

                                  TELLER
                That is a possibility, yes. It s 
                  something we re looking into.

                                  MARK
                Do you know how much time I ve spent, 
                since I met Zoe - talking about him? 
                John, John, John. Poor John, needy 
                John. Broken John. 

He almost breaks down. The anger and the grief and the sorrow 
and the helplessness and the sheer, godawful waste of it.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 7.


He fights it. Has dignity. Is strong.

Teller allows him a moment.

                                  TELLER
                I need to know anything that might 
                have happened between John Luther and 
                Zoe over the last days and weeks -

                                  MARK
                They were seeing each other.

                                  TELLER
                   Seeing ?

                                  MARK
                Sleeping together.

                                  TELLER
                When did you find out?

                                  MARK
                Look, I was with friends tonight. All 
                you have to do is ask them -

                                  TELLER
                We know where you were. When did you 
                find out about John and Zoe?

                                  MARK
                The day before yesterday. I told her - 
                choose who she wants, but for God s 
                sake stick by that choice. Just 
                commit. 
                      (bereft)
                  I suppose she chose me - and paid for 
                it.

                                  TELLER
                If that does turn out to be the case, 
                then you must never, ever blame 
                  yourself. Because know what? If John 
                pulled the trigger on another human 
                being, the responsibility for that is 
                his and his alone. If he killed Zoe, I 
                will not rest until I see him punished 
                for it. If I could bring back the 
                death penalty for it, I d do it. I d 
                press the lever myself and see him 
                swing. 
                      (gathers herself)
                Sorry. You didn t need to hear that. 

                                  MARK
                Yes I did.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 8.


                                  TELLER
                      (rattled, she stands)
                If you ll excuse me. I ll have some 
                officers take a more detailed 
                  statement.

Mark watches her leave. 

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - NIGHT1717

Reed is at his desk, coffee going cold in his hand. Rigid with 
anxiety. When Teller strides in he nearly SCREAMS. 

                                  TELLER
                Sorry, did I -?

                                  REED
                No, it s me. It s me. Miles away.

                                  TELLER
                      (shuts the door)
                Is this actually happening?

                                  REED
                No. In about two minutes my alarm s 
                going to go off and I m going to wake 
                up. By the time I get to work, I ll 
                have forgotten I ever dreamed it.

Beat.

                                  REED (cont d)
                He called me.

                                  TELLER
                Who?

                                  REED
                Who d you think?

                                  TELLER
                When?

                                  REED
                Just now.

                                  TELLER
                Where is he? What did he say?

                                  REED
                That I did it. Again.

                                  TELLER
                Oh, Ian -

He passes her his mobile. Plays the message.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 9.


                                  LUTHER (RECORDED)
                I know what you did. You set me up. 
                You made it look like I killed her 
                because you think - if they're coming 
                for me, then I can't come for you.

She can t listen to any more. It s too painful. She gives him 
the phone back.

                                  REED
                I didn t know what to do. Telling you 
                this stuff - it feels like I m 
                  betraying him, y know?

                                  TELLER
                It doesn t matter. You ve told me now. 
                We can fudge the timeframe in the 
                report. We ve done worse.

He nods, meekly. Appreciating it.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                See if you can track the phone he s 
                using, get a lead on where he might 
                be. 

                                  REED
                Okay, I can do that.

                                  TELLER
                But you do know - that call, it was 
                the sound of someone having a total 
                  breakdown. Which might not be all bad 
                news.

                                  REED
                Sorry?

                                  TELLER
                If we can pin this mess on mental 
                illness, then I can t be held 
                  accountable - and this unit might 
                survive. 

                                  REED
                Wow. Okay. I hadn t - 

                                  TELLER
                Well, you don t have to think like 
                that. I do.
                      (Beat)
                I should never have taken him back. I 
                knew the risk. God knows they told me: 
                 He s nitro glycerine.  And I didn t 
                listen, because I was so bent on 
                making it work. I just so wanted to 
                make it sodding work.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 10.


Reed steps up. Hugs her. She weeps into his shoulder. 

                                  REED
                It s not your fault, Boss. It s not 
                your fault.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, BEDROOM - NIGHT1818

Alice is in bed, asleep. At a small noise, she sits up - 
instantly. Opens a bedside drawer, takes out a CUT-THROAT 
RAZOR. Straightens it. Snick. 

Pads on silent feet through the dark apartment, finally 
entering the living room - 

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT1919

- and hits the light. JOHN LUTHER is hunched on the sofa. 

                                  ALICE
                If you needed a key, all you had to do 
                was ask. 

He stands, faces her, sees the straight razor. 

                                  LUTHER
                I didn t think you slept.

                                  ALICE
                Only lightly, and not for long. Why 
                are you here?

                                  LUTHER
                I was looking for a safe place to 
                think. 

                                  ALICE
                About what?

                                  LUTHER
                Zoe s dead.

                                  ALICE
                And are we speaking figuratively?

                                  LUTHER
                No.

                                  ALICE
                Did you kill her?

                                  LUTHER
                Would it matter?

                                  ALICE
                To me? Well, it s nice to see you 
                retain your sense of humour.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 11.


                                  LUTHER
                I mean it.

                                  ALICE
                I liked her. But if you killed her, 
                I m sure you had a reason.

                                  LUTHER
                  I didn t.

                                  ALICE
                Fine. Who did?

EXT. ZOE AND MARK S PLACE (CRIME SCENE) - NIGHT2020

Schenk s car pulls up. Ripley and Schenk get out. Ripley takes 
a second to steel himself, then heads to the house.

POLICE OFFICERS discreetly point him out - the partner of the 
only suspect. Ripley pretends to be oblivious.

INT. ZOE AND MARK S PLACE (CRIME SCENE) - NIGHT2121

Ripley turns away from Zoe s body. 

Schenk is kneeling, a shattered, FRAMED PICTURE OF ZOE AND MARK 
in his gloved hand.

                                  SCHENK
                He smashed only symbols of her 
                  relationship with this new chap -
                  Paintings, photographs. Makes for a 
                very intimate scene -
                      (stands)
                And we do know he likes to smash 
                things when he s angry. All of which 
                would tend to align us in Luther s 
                  direction.

                                  RIPLEY
                Unless this has been staged for our 
                benefit.

                                  SCHENK
                By whom? Mr North?

                                  RIPLEY
                It s worth considering, surely. 

                                  SCHENK
                Even if he didn t have an alibi -
                when a man stages a murder scene, he 
                tends to make it look how he thinks it 
                should. It s always wrong. But this 
                scene is consistent with the thesis. 
                To stage such a thing correctly would 
                  require...a very chilly heart.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 12.


                Which doesn t seem compatible with a 
                crime of rage. 

                                  RIPLEY
                But it s not right.

                                  SCHENK
                Tell me how.

                                  RIPLEY
                This kind of killing - jealous 
                husband, sex, rage, all the rest of 
                it. You d expect a knife, maybe a 
                bludgeon of some kind. A fist. Not a 
                gun. The scene, yeah - the scene s 
                  consistent. The weapon s not.

                                  SCHENK
                You don t like the choice of weapon, 
                so you think Luther s innocent?

                                  RIPLEY
                I want him to be innocent. But if he s 
                not, then I ll do my job properly and 
                without hesitation.

                                  SCHENK
                That s a very brave answer.

                                  RIPLEY
                It s not supposed to be. It s just the 
                way it is.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT2222

Alice at the window, peeking through the blinds. Coffee in 
hand. Serene. Actually kind of enjoying herself.

                                  LUTHER
                  Anything?

                                  ALICE
                Nothing. I d imagine this would be the 
                last place they d look.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah, well. Right now, I don t know 
                what to imagine. 

She sits. 

                                  ALICE
                Are you going to kill him?

                                  LUTHER
                I ve thought about it. I can t think 
                about anything else. I can t see past 
                it.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 13.


                                  ALICE
                Then why are you here?

                                  LUTHER
                To think. I need a place, a safe 
                place. Maybe sleep for an hour. 

She scrutinises him. Sips coffee.

                                  ALICE
                In 1988, two psychologists published 
                an article which argued that  positive 
                  self-deception  is a normal and 
                  advantageous part of most people s 
                life. It turns out, people lie to 
                  themselves about three things - they 
                view themselves in implausibly 
                positive ways; they believe they have 
                far more control over their lives than 
                they actually do; and they believe the 
                future will be better than the 
                evidence of the present can possibly 
                justify. But you re past that now - 
                you re on the other side of that 
                  particular mirror. Lying to yourself 
                isn t going to help any more. So tell 
                me again. Why are you here? 

A long, very intense beat. 

                                  LUTHER
                Because I need you to help me.

                                  ALICE
                You re asking me to be your 
                  accomplice?

                                  LUTHER
                Yes.

                                  ALICE
                  Excellent. Where do we start?

INT. ZOE AND MARK S PLACE (CRIME SCENE) - NIGHT2323

Ripley and Schenk, making notes. Wong s phone rings. 

                                  RIPLEY (ON PHONE)
                Hello?

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT2424

Luther is on the mobile he took from Sugarman s body in Ep 5.

                                  LUTHER 
                Can you talk?

INTERCUT LUTHER and RIPLEY                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 14.


Ripley glances at Schenk. For a long, agonising second he 
thinks about it - what do I do? 

Then he folds up a finger to Schenk, meaning  back in two 
minutes  and steps aways to find a place he can talk. SOCO 
officers are everywhere, affording no privacy. 

                                  RIPLEY
                  Absolutely, I can talk.

                                  LUTHER
                Are you at the house?

                                  RIPLEY
                Yes.

                                  LUTHER
                It wasn t me.

Beat.

                                  RIPLEY
                Yeah. Yeah I know that, I think.

Luther pauses. He s moved to hear Ripley say this.

                                  RIPLEY (cont d)
                If y-
                      (catches the eye of a passing 
                        SOCO)
                - if Luther was going to do something 
                like this, he d stage the scene to 
                look like Mark North did it. He might 
                be insane, but he s not stupid. 

                                  LUTHER
                You re a good man, Justin. And you re 
                an excellent detective.

                                  RIPLEY
                Too right. So where are you, right 
                now?

                                  LUTHER
                You wouldn t believe me if I told you.

                                  RIPLEY
                I don t doubt it. Any info your end?

                                  LUTHER
                I m not going to compromise you any 
                more than I have to, okay? But don t 
                trust Ian Reed.

                                  RIPLEY
                Sorry, it s a bit clattery over here. 
                Can you repeat that?                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 15.


                                  LUTHER
                Don t trust Ian Reed.

A moment. Ripley looks nauseated - looking round this crime 
scene, the smashed up room, SOCO in their white bunny suits. 
Maybe wonders for a moment if Luther truly has lost his mind.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                I know how it sounds. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Can you, um, run the details by me?

                                  LUTHER
                Not now.

Schenk puts away his notebook. Approaches Ripley. Taps his 
shoulder. 

                                  SCHENK
                      (mouths)
                Who is this?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (to Luther)
                One moment.
                      (turns to Schenk)
                Tech Forensics. Trace on Luther s 
                phone. No news.

Schenk nods. Wanders to the door.

                                  Ripley (cont d)
                      (to Luther)
                Okay, I m going to need a brief precis 
                of what you ve got. Soon as you like. 

                                  LUTHER
                When there s time to explain, I will. 

Ripley is disturbed by a COMMOTION - a harried-looking 
UNIFORMED OFFICER squeezes in to the room, approaches Schenk. 

Ripley breaks off from the phone, listens.

                                  UNIFORMED OFFICER 3
                I think we ve found the gun.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (low, to Luther)
                You got that?

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. I got that.

Ripley follows Schenk and the uniformed officer from the house, 
out into the rain.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 16.


EXT. STREET - NIGHT2525

Ripley and Schenk plus assorted UNIFORMED OFFICERS and SOCO 
squat round a DRAIN. THEY BUSTLE, shove each other, shine 
torches. A TALL OFFICER lies in the gutter, reaching far down 
into the drain, using a HOOK FASHIONED FROM A COAT HANGER. 

They watch, spectate really, the silence under the harsh lights 
growing intense as  -

                                  TALL OFFICER
                Got it. Got something. 

Angle on his agony and concentration as he strains to tease it 
from the drain. Drops it. Fishes round. Hooks it again. Pulls 
it out of the drain.

It s a gun. It s the gun. A MILLION FLASHES AS IT S 
PHOTOGRAPHED IN SITU - spotlighting LUTHER S FINGERPRINTS ON 
THE BARREL. In Sugarman s blood. 

Schenk steps forward, produces an EVIDENCE BAG, holds it out. 

A SOCO drops the gun into the bag. There s a brief flurry while 
Schenk and the SOCO countersign.

Ripley approaches.

                                  RIPLEY
                How s it looking?

                                  SCHENK
                      (signing documents)
                  Forensics in the house are 
                  circumstantial. This gun is hard 
                  evidence. I don t want it being 
                  contaminated or  going missing  as the 
                  consequence of some police officer s 
                  misguided loyalty. 

                                  RIPLEY
                  Seriously?

                                  SCHENK
                These are good men, but sometimes 
                goodness affords its own temptations.

                                  RIPLEY
                So what do we do? 

                                  SCHENK
                First rule of chain of evidence: 
                minimise the number of transfers. We 
                take it to the lab ourselves.

ANGLE ON RIPLEY'S HAND. He s still holding the mobile phone. 
The line is open!                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 17.


INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT2626

And Luther s listening in. He hangs up.

                                  LUTHER
                They found it.

                                  ALICE
                You didn t pull the trigger, so it 
                doesn t matter. It s got no value as 
                  evidence.

                                  LUTHER
                If Ian left it there, he left it to be 
                found.

                                  ALICE
                Meaning?

                                  LUTHER
                There was a gun. I touched it - and 
                gave it to Ian. It s got my 
                  fingerprints on it. If that was the 
                gun he used to kill Zoe, my 
                  fingerprints are all they need.

                                  ALICE
                You taught him well.

                                  LUTHER
                Not as well you taught me. I d ve 
                hidden it in a dog.

                                  ALICE
                So now? 

                                  LUTHER
                It s taken to the lab, it undergoes 
                  ballistics tests, fingerprint 
                  analysis. 

                                  ALICE
                If that happens, it s over for you. 

                                  LUTHER
                If it happens. But it s not going to.

Beat.

                                  ALICE
                  Outstanding. 

INT. ALICE S PLACE - SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT2727

IN THE KITCHEN - Alice opens a cupboard. Removes a plastic 
crate. Cans of WD40, bottles of bleach, Fairy Liquid. She finds 
some PLASTIC TIES. SOME SCREWDRIVERS. A SWISS ARMY KNIFE.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 18.


IN THE KITCHEN - she goes to the knife block. Selects two 
blades.

IN THE BEDROOM - she opens a drawer. Takes out the WIG she wore 
in Ep 4. A woolly hat. Finally, she opens her UNDERWEAR DRAWER. 

On her grin as something occurs to her -

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT2828

Alice enters. She s wearing the wig, the woolly hat. She looks 
like a young, psychotic Anna Wintour. Luther is at the table, 
examining a LARGE A-Z OF LONDON.

                                  LUTHER
                They re leaving from here
                      (points to map)
                Taking the evidence here.
                      (points to map)
                We re here. We can be there before 
                them - assuming Schenk doesn t head 
                off under blues and twos. 
                      (takes in the wig)
                What do you know about stealing cars?

                                  ALICE
                Nothing.

                                  LUTHER
                That doesn t matter. I m good at 
                stealing cars. Did you find anything I 
                can  -

He gestures, covering his face. Alice raises an eyebrow. 

Holds up a STOCKING.

A strange, charged beat. Luther takes the stocking, pockets it. 

                                  ALICE
                They ll know it s you. You re not an 
                easy man to disguise.

                                  LUTHER
                That s not the point.

                                  ALICE
                What is?

                                  LUTHER
                  Deniability. 
                      (Beat)
                Listen, if we re caught -

                                  ALICE
                I say you forced me to help. You 
                  threatened my life.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 19.


                                  LUTHER
                You re not joking, are you?

                                  ALICE
                  Absolutely not.

Luther hesitates, unnerved. 

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                What s wrong?

                                  LUTHER
                You ever step outside yourself, look 
                at what you re doing? Think you ve 
                gone mad?

                                  ALICE
                No.

                                  LUTHER
                I can t trust you, Alice. Not enough. 
                Not to do this.

A beat. Alice and Luther stand deadlocked. 

                                  ALICE
                  Seriously. What do I have to do?

She whirls on her heel - goes to the mantle - takes down the 
URN CONTAINING HER DOG S ASHES - and smashes it on the floor. 
Ash rises in a grey cloud. 

She kneels and - to Luther s growing astonishment - produces 
the scraps of the GUN SHE USED TO KILL HER FAMILY - approaches 
him - presses the evidence into his hand.

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                You were right. I needed to keep a 
                memento. 

He doesn't want it. He stands back, holding up his hands. 

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                You and I - we are what we are. So you 
                need to know this, John - of all the 
                people in the world, I will never 
                betray you.

She gives him a look - disappointed. Then unceremoniously drops 
the fragments, pushes past Luther, exits.

A beat. 

His eyes fix on the gun fragments. Then he turns and exits, 
following her.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 20.


I/E. SCHENK S CAR, STREETS - NIGHT2929

Schenk is driving through the almost empty streets. Stay with 
him for a while - streetlamps pulse overhead. Police chatter on 
the radio, almost soporific. Ripley dozing.

Schenk turns onto a quiet street - notes ANOTHER CAR turning on 
the road behind them. Headlamps dazzling in the rear-view.

Ripley wakes. Notes it, too. 

Schenk turns again. So does the car behind. Schenk frowns a 
little - catches Ripley's eye. 

Schenk turns his attention to the road. Reaches for his radio. 
Just checking it s there.

The car is still behind him. 

Abruptly, ANOTHER CAR PULLS OUT in front of him, blocking the 
road. 

Schenk hits the brakes - stops JUST BEFORE SMASHING INTO the 
car in front. 

The CAR BEHIND pulls up with a screech. Sandwiching Schenk s 
car. 

                                  SCHENK
                Are you armed?

                                  RIPLEY
                No. You?

                                  SCHENK
                No.

FROM THE CAR BEHIND

Luther emerges - LONG SCREWDRIVER in one hand, TYRE-IRON in the 
other. He s wearing the stocking mask and a watch cap. 

He approaches Schenk s car. STABS THE REAR TYRE WITH THE 
SCREWDRIVER. 

Tries to open the passenger door. It s locked. He smashes the 
window with the tyre-iron, unlocks it - hauls Ripley from the 
car.

FROM THE CAR IN FRONT

Alice emerges, in wig and long coat. Cool as hell. Enjoying 
herself immensely.

IN THE CAR

Schenk goes for the radio.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 21.


                                  SCHENK (cont d)
                  - repeat, assistance urgently 
                  required, this is - 

Alice smashes the window. Puts the point of A STEAK KNIFE to 
the base of Schenk s skull. 

                                  ALICE
                Shush.

Schenk sits there, blinking. 

OUTSIDE

Luther throws Ripley into one of the plane trees that line the 
street.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (low)
                Hit me. 

Luther hesitates.

                                  Ripley (cont d)
                You ve got to. 

Luther hesitates. Then PUNCHES RIPLEY in the ribs, throws him 
into the gutter. Ripley falls to his knees, gagging - as Luther 
returns to Schenk s car - opens the GLOVE BOX. There s the GUN 
in the EVIDENCE BAG. 

Alice has used PLASTIC HANDCUFFS to secure Schenk s hands to 
the steering wheel. 

As Luther takes the gun, Alice snatches the keys from the 
ignition. Drops them down the drain. 

They walk to Luther s car. Get in. Drive away.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - MORNING3030

Reed is exhausted, red-eyed unshaven, wired beyond belief. 

When his phone rings, he jumps.

                                  REED
                Justin. What s up?

                                  RIPLEY (O.S.)
                He showed.

EXT. SCHENK S CAR, STREETS - MORNING3131

Schenk leans on the bonnet of his car, arms crossed. Ripley on 
the phone. Sirens are approaching 

                                  RIPLEY 
                He took the gun.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 22.


INTERCUT REED and RIPLEY

                                  REED
                What do you mean, he took the gun?

                                  RIPLEY
                Were were taking it to the lab. He 
                  intercepted us, Martin Schenk and me. 

Reed: get hold of yourself. Okay. Think.

                                  REED
                All right. You need to come in. I 
                think we need to start facing some 
                hard facts, here.

                                  RIPLEY
                What do you mean?

                                  REED
                I mean, he s not acting like an 
                innocent man, is he? 

INT. ALICE S STOLEN CAR (PARKED), RIVERSIDE - MORNING3232

Alice has parked near the river. Luther is cleaning 
fingerprints from the gun with DOMESTOS HANDY SURFACE WIPES. 

He examines the gun through every plane - evidently flummoxed 
by something. Alice takes the gun. Expertly dismantles it.

He watches her practised expertise.

                                  LUTHER
                Why did you do it? 

                                  ALICE
                Do what?

                                  LUTHER
                Your family.

She takes the SWISS ARMY KNIFE from her bag, opens the FILE

                                  ALICE
                Because I wanted to.

                                  LUTHER
                How could you want that?

                                  ALICE
                      (rasping the file back and 
                        forth inside the barrel)
                Let s put Ian Reed in a room with you, 
                then let s talk about who wants what. 

Hands him the gun, in pieces.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 23.


                                  ALICE (cont d)
                Sure you don t want to keep it?

                                  LUTHER
                No. No guns. 

                                  ALICE
                Suit yourself.

They get out -

EXT. LONDON, RIVERSIDE - MORNING3333

- stand on the bank of the river. Luther looks at the 
components in his hand. The machine that killed Zoe, reduced to 
abstract shapes. Mirroring the pieces of gun Alice used to kill 
her family.

He reaches back an arm. Throws it all into the water.

EXT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - MORNING3434

Reed shuts the door. Locks it. Looks at his phone. Frightened 
by what he has to do.

                                  REED
                Three - two - one

He dials.

INT. LONDON, RIVERSIDE - MORNING3535

Luther s phone rings.

                                  LUTHER
                It s him.

The phone rings and rings. Is Luther going to answer? 

Yes.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                What do you want Ian? 

INTERCUT REED and LUTHER 

                                  REED
                To talk.

                                  LUTHER
                You scared? You sound it.

                                  REED
                Yeah, I m scared.

                                  LUTHER
                You should be. You should be very, 
                very scared.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 24.


                                  REED
                John, I can t deal with this. I can t 
                handle it. It s in my brain - it s 
                like my head s full of spiders. I 
                can t stand it. I think I m going mad. 
                      (fights not to weep)
                  Honestly, mate. I can t stand it.

                                  LUTHER
                That won t stop me coming for you.   

                                  REED
                I can t undo it. I wish I could. My 
                hand to God - if I could go back, I d 
                rather it was me who died. I d rather 
                be dead than go through this. 

                                  LUTHER
                Well, we can arrange that.

                                  REED
                Let me see you. Just let me say what 
                I ve got to say. After that - well, 
                  whatever. It s in your hands. Please.

Luther s eyes are hooded. He s deep in thought. 

Reed waits. Cheeks wet with tears.

Luther checks his watch. Just gone 9 a.m.

                                  LUTHER
                Eleven thirty. Out by where Cherry 
                Systems used to be.

He hangs up.

                                  ALICE
                You re not going to do what he wants?

                                  LUTHER
                Yes I am. But first you and I need to 
                do something.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY3636

Teller is debriefing Ripley and Schenk. 

                                  TELLER 
                Should you be at home?

                                  RIPLEY
                I just cracked a rib. I ll be fine. 

She winces. Jesus. Runs her hands through her hair.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 25.


                                  TELLER
                Okay. Do we have any idea of the 
                  accomplice s ID - the woman?

                                  RIPLEY
                I don t know. Young, white. Slim 
                build. A wig, probably. 

                                  TELLER
                She didn t speak?

                                  RIPLEY
                Neither of them spoke.

                                  TELLER
                But it was Luther?

                                  SCHENK
                It was Luther.

                                  TELLER
                You re one hundred per cent positive.

                                  SCHENK
                He wore a cursory disguise - a 
                stocking mask. So given that I d say, 
                  ninety-five per cent.

                                  TELLER
                Do you know what a decent defence 
                calls ninety-five per cent? Reasonable 
                doubt. 

Schenk takes the point, shrugs. Teller turns to Ripley. 

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                Was it him?

                                  RIPLEY
                On balance, I d guess so. Yes. 

                                  TELLER
                You d  guess ?

                                  RIPLEY
                  I couldn t swear to it.

                                  TELLER
                He killed his wife! He ambushed you 
                and stole the only hard evidence we 
                have to convict him! He busted your 
                ribs! Wake up! Stop protecting him!

                                  RIPLEY
                I m not.

A tense beat is broken by Reed. He knocks, enters. All trace of 
the emotional wreck has gone. He s bright-eyed, eager.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 26.


                                  REED
                John called. He wants to set up a 
                meeting.

INT. MARKS  CAR - DAY3737

Mark is parked. Watching a children s playground. Just staring.

His phone rings. With great reluctance, he answers.

                                  MARK
                What?

EXT. LONDON, RIVERSIDE - DAY3838

Alice on the phone.

                                  ALICE
                Mr North? My name s Sergeant Nicola 
                  Blackstock - my boss may ve mentioned 
                that I d call? Detective 
                  Superintendant Teller? 

INTERCUT ALICE and MARK

                                  MARK
                      (almost without affect)
                No, no she didn t mention. Can t you 
                leave me alone? Just for an hour?

                                  ALICE
                Well, I know what you must be going 
                through. And I m truly sorry to bother 
                you. So, I ll tell you what - why 
                don t I come to you? Tell me where you 
                are, I ll pop over, ask just a couple 
                of questions. And be out of your hair 
                before you know it.

Mark watches the children play. 

                                  MARK
                If you must.

Alice turns to Luther with a wry look. 

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - DAY3939

Reed is sitting, waiting. Staring at the door to his locker. 

Teller enters. Over her arm she s carrying a bullet-proof vest.

                                  REED
                I can t use it.

                                  TELLER
                Ian - if we put you unprotected in 
                John path, he is going to kill you.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 27.


                                  REED
                It won t come to that.

                                  TELLER
                He s convinced you killed his wife. 
                He s delusional. So actually, it may 
                come to that.

                                  REED
                I trust him. It ll be okay. I can 
                bring him in. 

                                  TELLER
                I don t like sending you in naked. 

                                  REED
                No more than I like doing it. But this 
                is John we re talking about. 

                                  TELLER
                You owe him nothing. He owes you. He 
                owes us both. You re not going in 
                there unprotected. Final word.

                                  REED
                What kind of thing are we talking 
                about?

                                  TELLER
                Tactical weapons support. If it looks 
                for one moment -
                      (over his protest)
                - for one moment like your life s in 
                danger, I give the order.

                                  REED
                Rose -

                                  TELLER
                We do it like this - or we don t do it 
                at all. Your call.

Reed appears to struggle with this. But is secretly delighted.

                                  REED
                Fine. Bring in the shooters. 

EXT. MARK S CAR - DAY4040

Mark s car, still parked in the same place. Alice approaches. 
Walks to the passenger door. Opens it. Gets in.

INT. MARK S CAR - DAY4141

Slides in next to Mark. Sticks a knife in his ribs.

                                  ALICE
                Don t speak. Drive.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 28.


INT. SCU, RIPLEY'S DESK - DAY4242

Ripley swallows a painkiller. Schenk enters, sits. Leans close. 

                                  SCHENK
                You and I went through something 
                today. Which makes us - comrades in 
                arms, I suppose.

                                  RIPLEY
                  I suppose.

                                  SCHENK
                So I ask you as a comrade - what s 
                  troubling you?

                                  RIPLEY
                In what way? 

                                  SCHENK
                No offence intended, but people like 
                you and me - we know how people look 
                when they re hiding something. 

                                  RIPLEY
                How would you like me to look?

                                  SCHENK
                  Betrayed? Angry? Vengeful? That s our 
                  psychology - we hate those we wish to 
                love. Someone who s let us down, 
                perhaps.

                                  RIPLEY
                Is this an accusation?

                                  SCHENK
                Of what? An atypical reaction to 
                  betrayal? 

                                  RIPLEY
                What do you want?

                                  SCHENK
                To know what you think.

                                  RIPLEY
                About what?

Schenk glances left and right. Pensive. Perhaps unsure of the 
ground he s walking on.

                                  SCHENK
                Luther s psychotic. He claims to 
                believe that Detective Chief Inspector 
                Reed killed his wife.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 29.


                If that s so, then why does he go to 
                all the trouble of stealing that gun? 
                It doesn t fit the delusional 
                  framework. 

                                  RIPLEY
                No. I suppose not.

                                  SCHENK
                So what s going on in Luther s head?

                                  RIPLEY
                Who can say?

                                  SCHENK
                Well, who indeed? 

INT. SEEDY HOTEL, CORRIDOR - DAY4343

Alice and Mark walk down the corridor. She has a knife to his 
back. They stop. Alice opens a door. And there, in the seedy 
room, is John Luther.

INT. SEEDY HOTEL, LUTHER S ROOM - DAY4444

Mark enters. Shuts the door behind him. Moving as if in a 
dream.

Approaches Luther. A moment. 

Mark punches him. 

Luther takes the punch. Absorbs it. His eyes grow softer. Mark 
hits him again. And again. And again. And again.

The rage and the sorrow and the horror build up - and he s 
beating Luther - hitting him and hitting him - howling his pain 
and his heartbreak - until he s exhausted - 

And can only stand there. Drained. Breathing hard. 

And now we see that Luther is crying. For Mark s pain, not his 
own. 

Luther sits on the edge of the bed. 

Mark stays there. 

Frozen for a moment, in tableau. The cheap clock on the cheap 
table moves from 9:57 to 9:58. 

Then Luther looks up, slowly. Until he meets Mark s gaze.

                                  LUTHER
                I didn t do it.

On Mark s grief and confusion -                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 30.


INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY4545

Teller is with Cornish, who s looking at an AERIAL PHOTOGRAPH 
OF A TRADING ESTATE.

                                  TELLER
                Luther set the meet - here.

                                    CORNISH
                For what? A chat?

                                  TELLER
                  Apparently. 

                                    CORNISH
                He s lying. 

                                  TELLER
                Of course he s lying. 

INT. SEEDY HOTEL, LUTHER S ROOM - DAY4646

Luther leans forward. His face is very close to Mark s.

                                  LUTHER
                All you have to do is get there around 
                10:45. They ll be leaving -

                                  MARK
                What does that mean?

                                  LUTHER
                It doesn t matter. They ll be leaving, 
                they ll ask you to wait until they 
                return. You ll be alone.

                                  MARK
                So I do what you say. What then?

                                  LUTHER
                Say you need to leave. They can t stop 
                you. Then you come to me. 

                                  MARK
                What about Reed?

                                  LUTHER
                Reed will be elsewhere. That s all you 
                need to know.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY4747

Teller and Cornish.

                                    CORNISH
                You re putting Reed at risk.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 31.


                                  TELLER
                I m mindful of that, sir. But he s 
                right - this is the best way to bring 
                Luther in without bloodshed.

                                    CORNISH
                C019?

                                  TELLER
                Kitted up and ready to go.

                                    CORNISH
                If circumstances warrant - if he s 
                  endangering life and limb - you won t 
                hesitate to give the kill order. 

                                  TELLER
                  Absolutely not.

INT. SCU, RIPLEY'S DESK -  DAY4848

The clock reads 10:47. Ripley is strapping on a BULLET PROOF 
VEST, talking to Schenk.

                                  RIPLEY
                You re not coming?

                                  SCHENK
                This doesn t fall within my compass - 
                for which I m grateful. I ve no desire 
                to see what happens next.

Reed hears that - and approaches. Lays a hand on Ripley's 
shoulder. Ripley fights not to squirm. 

Schenk notices. 

                                  REED
                      (to Ripley)
                You don t need to be there either.

                                  RIPLEY
                Yes, I do.

An emotional beat - until Reed nods, accepting it. 

Then TELLER ENTERS. In bullet-proof vest, boots. 

                                  TELLER
                We ready?

They follow her. 

They re almost through the door - when MARK NORTH ENTERS! 
Approaches Teller.

                                  MARK
                I need to speak to you.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 32.


                                  TELLER
                Okay. Of course. It s just that we 
                have - a live situation right now and -

                                  MARK
                That s okay. I can wait.

                                  TELLER
                Sure?

                                  MARK
                  Absolutely.

But then - to Mark s dismay - SCHENK STEPS FORWARD.

                                  SCHENK
                I ll look after Mr North.

                                  MARK
                      (glances at clock)
                Really, there s no need. I ll be fine. 
                I can wait.

                                  SCHENK
                  Nonsense. I ll keep you company until 
                the others get back. 

Marks nods okay...but thinks  Oh, shit . Teller thanks Schenk. 
Then she, Ripley and Reed head to the door.

Schenk and Mark watch them. 

IN THE DOORWAY, Reed s eyes flick to Schenk and Mark, narrowing 
with disquiet. Then he turns and leave.

Schenk takes Mark s elbow, leads him away.

                                  SCHENK (cont d)
                Mr North? If I may?

EXT. ALICE S CAR, STREETS - DAY4949

Luther gets out.

                                  ALICE
                This isn t going to work if you can t 
                control your temper. It s a weakness. 
                He ll use it.

                                  LUTHER
                I can control it.

                                  ALICE
                You d better. Because - if I 
                  understand correctly - police marksmen 
                don t shoot to wound.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 33.


                                  LUTHER
                No. They shoot to stop. Go for the 
                centre of mass. Here.
                      (points)
                The heart. 

                                  ALICE
                How apropos. 

She gives him a look. He walks away. 

EXT. INDUSTRIAL WASTELAND - DAY5050

Emptiness. Until Reed appears. A small figure at first. Growing 
until he reaches the dead centre. And waits. Alone. Unarmed. 

EXT. HIGH BUILDINGS, OVERLOOKING WASTELAND - DAY5151

THE C019 TACTICAL UNIT lies concealed on the surrounding roofs. 
G36s, binoculars, radios. One of them points a powerful 
PARABOLIC MICROPHONE at Reed.

Teller and Ripley are scanning the area with binoculars. Teller 
is wearing an earpiece, listening in on Reed.

Ripley checks his watch. 11.24.

INTERCUT REED and CO19

As they wait in the LONG, UNBEARABLE SILENCE. 

Teller glances at her watch. Watches SECONDS TICK BY. 

Nobody moves. And then -

Teller s POV: LUTHER COMES SLOWLY MARCHING OVER THE WASTELAND! 
Sure and predatory. No fear. Low hate in his eyes.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (swings his binoculars)
                Got him.

                                  TELLER
                  Sergeant?

                                  CO19
                We ve got a clear shot and are good to 
                go.

Ripley glances at Teller. 

                                  TELLER
                On my order. Not before.

                                  CO19
                Received and understood.

ON THE WASTELAND                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 34.


Luther stops. Faces Reed.

Reed meets his gaze. A long, long moment. Great sorrow in 
Reed s eyes.

                                  LUTHER
                So what do you want me to do? Kill 
                you? Forgive you?

                                  REED
                I just want you to listen.

ON THE ROOFTOP

Fingers tighten on triggers. Luther is SQUARE IN THEIR SCOPES - 
crosshairs lock on to his chest. His beating heart. 

ON THE WASTELAND

                                  REED (cont d)
                I don t understand how you can believe 
                  I actually did this.

                                  LUTHER
                Well, you ve changed your tune since 
                we last spoke.

                                  REED
                      (shakes head, sadly)
                No, John. 

                                  LUTHER
                Okay. I ll play. I believe you did it 
                because you did it. How s that?

ON THE ROOFTOPS

Crosshairs follow Luther s every movement.

ON THE WASTELAND 

                                  REED
                If you really believed that, deep 
                down, then why steal the gun?

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, the gun. Yeah, you did a decent 
                job with that. But it s gone, and so 
                is the only hard evidence they had 
                against me. So all this - whatever 
                angle you re playing to save yourself. 
                It s used up. All over.

                                  REED
                You re not answering the question. 

                                  LUTHER
                I think I am.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 35.


                                  REED
                If you didn t do it, how could there 
                even be any hard evidence against you? 
                How s that possible?

                                  LUTHER
                You wired, Ian? 

With an expression of great sorrow, Reed raises his shirt - 

                                  REED
                Course not. This is about you and me. 
                Nobody s listening in. 

                                  LUTHER
                So what are you trying to say?

                                  REED
                I ve talked to the doctors. And what s 
                  happening to you right now, it s 
                called a dissociative state. It s the 
                mind distancing itself from things 
                that are too much for it to process. 
                You re blaming me because you can t 
                bear to confront what you ve done.  
                You re in pain, in distress. You need 
                help. So come home. 
                      (spreads his arms in a Christ-
                        like gesture)
                Let us help you.

Luther barks a laugh at that. The audacity of it. He claps his 
hands.

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, brilliant! Bravo!

ON THE ROOFTOPS

                                  TELLER
                  Sergeant?

                                  CO19
                Still clear and good to go, ma am.

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther stops clapping.

                                  LUTHER
                Thing is, I know you didn t come alone 
                - you wouldn t have the balls. You 
                came out here with CO19. Right now, 
                they ve got assault rifles trained on 
                my centre of mass. And we don t shoot 
                to stop, do we mate? People in our 
                game, we shoot to kill. Have to, 
                really.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 36.


He turns in a circle, arms spread wide, addressing the 
surrounding buildings, punching himself in the chest.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                HOW IS IT, BOSS? GOT THE KILL SHOT? 
                LOCKED ON TO THE CENTRE OF MASS?

ON THE ROOF

Teller winces, glances at Ripley. Who glances away, ashamed.

ON THE WASTE LAND

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                That s why we re all here! You prod me 
                a bit, wind me up. I lose it, become a 
                threat to your life. Which gives them 
                legal reason to shoot me. Bang bang 
                bang. All your problems solved. Me and 
                my temper, eh?

                                  REED
                John, listen to yourself. You re ill.

                                  LUTHER
                And you re sick. I know which I d 
                rather be. 
                      (Beat)
                  I wonder. Are you at all interested in 
                why I d come here if I knew what you 
                were up to? 

A BRIEF FLICKER ON ANXIETY on Reed s face - as he feels the 
first hint of control slipping away. He recovers quickly.

                                  REED
                I don t know. You want to get 
                  something off your chest? About what 
                you did to Henry Madsen?

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, nice try. But I ve got nothing to 
                confess. Henry Madsen fell. You know 
                how hard I tried to catch him.  

Eye contact - knowing, amused. 

                                  REED
                Yeah. I know how hard you tried to 
                catch him.

                                  LUTHER
                So no, it s not about that. It s not 
                about him. The reason I came here - it 
                was to get you away from the locker 
                room.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 37.


Reed blanches. As Luther grins and LEANS IN. Very, very close. 
Too close for the parabolic mics to pick up.

ON THE ROOF

CO19 minutely adjust their sights. Centred on Luther. 

                                    SHOOTER
                Still clear...still clear...

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther s lips at Reed s ear. As he WHISPERS.

                                  LUTHER
                Because that s where you re keeping 
                the diamonds. Or at least it was. 
                Until - 
                      (checks watch)
                Oooh. About five minutes ago.

ON THE ROOF

Teller and Ripley watch very closely. 

                                  TELLER
                What s he saying? 

ON THE WASTELAND

Reed thinks furiously, realising he s trapped. He needs to get 
away, get to the diamonds. But he can t. 

Luther enjoys his discomfort.

                                  LUTHER
                Tick tick tick. Where could they have 
                gone?

He makes a magician s gesture with his hand - poof.

Beads of sweat on Reed s brow. 

                                  REED
                I didn t hurt Zoe, John. I couldn t. 
                She was special to me. I loved her.

                                  LUTHER
                Do me a favour.

                                  REED
                What?

                                  LUTHER
                Don t say her name. Not now.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 38.


                                  REED
                How can I not? She s what this is all 
                about. 

                                  LUTHER
                Really? I thought it was about me and 
                you.

                                  REED
                That too. You need to hear this from a 
                friend, because you need to wake up, 
                snap out of it. Open your eyes. You 
                always said you loved her, you banged 
                on and on about it, but what did that 
                actually mean? All I saw, you wanted 
                to own her, which isn t the same 
                thing. And now she d dead, because of 
                you.

The smile is gone from Luther s face. He takes a menacing step 
towards Reed. 

ON THE ROOFTOP 

                                  TELLER
                He goes for a weapon, you take the 
                shot. 

                                  RIPLEY
                      (to himself)
                Don t do it. Don t do it. Don t do it. 
                Don t do it.

ON THE WASTE LAND

                                  REED
                If she d never met you, she d still be 
                alive. And God knows, she d have been 
                happier.

                                  LUTHER
                Don t.

                                  REED
                Lie to me, to yourself, to whoever you 
                think s listening. But at some point, 
                you have to snap out of this fantasy 
                and just admit it. You killed her, 
                John! You said you loved her, and you 
                killed her! 

Luther s hand sweeps back his jacket - he reaches behind his 
belt - 

ON THE ROOFTOP                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 39.


                                  TELLER
                Wait to see the weapon. Wait to see 
                the weapon. 

ON THE WASTE LAND

Luther s hand closes on the HANDLE OF THE KNIFE he s got jammed 
in his belt -

ON THE ROOFTOP

Ripley jumps to his feet. KICKS the CO19 marksman!

                                  RIPLEY
                JOHN! RUN!

ON THE WASTELAND 

A frozen instant. Luther sees Ripley. Waving his arms. Run!

Looks at Reed. 

                                  REED
                Gotcha. 

And Luther turns. Runs for his life. Runs and runs and runs.

ON THE ROOFTOP

                                  TELLER
                Hold your fire! Stand down! You can t 
                shoot him in the back!

She faces Ripley. He makes no apology. 

CO19 looking at him.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                Arrest this man.
                      (into her radio)
                All units. Be alert to suspect John 
                Luther, repeat John Luther...

Ripley holds out his hands to be cuffed. CO19 oblige. They re 
not gentle.

ON THE WASTELAND

Luther runs round a corner. Sirens behind him - as SEVERAL 
POLICE CARS enter the estate. 

EXT. TRADING ESTATE (ALLEY) - DAY5252

Luther runs into a RATS  ALLEY. Garbage strewn. Wheelie bins. 
Sirens coming closer and closer.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 40.


At the far end is a CHAIN LINK FENCE. Topped with barbed wire. 
Fronted by old crates, a stained old mattress. The usual 
detritus. Luther sprints towards it.   

The sirens are closer - closer - 

Luther reaches the fence. Casts a FUGITIVE GLANCE over his 
shoulder. Hauls aside the mattress.

Behind it, a hole has been cut into the fence. He worms through 
it, then turns to replace the mattress before the hole, 
covering it. Then he runs.

INT. SIDESTREET - DAY5353

Luther jogs round the corner. Breathless. Alice is waiting, 
leaning on the car. She is calm, unhurried.

                                  ALICE
                How d it go?

                                  LUTHER
                I got what I wanted. 

                                  ALICE
                And how close did you come to getting 
                shot for it?

                                  LUTHER
                I didn t get shot.

                                  ALICE
                Fine. Your funeral.

She opens the boot. It yawns like a grave. Luther climbs in. 

Then Alice shuts the boot on him, gets behind the wheel and 
drives away. 

EXT. WASTELAND - DAY5454

Teller and Reed walk to a waiting police car, light bar 
flashing. 

                                  REED
                That dick -

                                  TELLER
                Let it go. 

                                  REED
                Would you?  Run, John . What was he 
                  thinking?

                                  TELLER
                He thought he was being John s friend 
                and it s already cost him everything. 
                So let it go.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 41.


                                  REED
                You fired him?

                                  TELLER
                And charged him as an accessory. 
                Ripley's finished. 

                                  REED
                Well, that s what being John s friend 
                does for us all in the end. We all pay 
                a price for it. 
                      (gets in)
                Let s get back. 

INT. SCU, WAITING ROOM - DAY5555

Schenk takes a cup to Mark. Sits. Benign and courteous.

Mark is checking his watch. It s 11.15. He s very nervous, 
tapping his feet.

                                  SCHENK
                Just one more time, if we may. Luther 
                came to see you...he was distressed...

                                  MARK
                Greatly distressed, yes. 

                                  SCHENK
                It feels unseemly to keep probing 
                this, such a raw wound, and so soon. 
                But I must ask what he said.

                                  MARK
                That he didn t do it. He wept. He held 
                my hand and cried. Do you think it s 
                  possible? That he s telling the truth?

                                  SCHENK
                All things are possible, although not 
                equally. What did you do? What did you 
                say?

                                  MARK
                I was scared. I let him talk. 

                                  SCHENK
                Of course. 

                                  MARK
                I wanted to kill him.

                                  SCHENK
                That s no crime in any jurisdiction. 

Mark glances at his watch. Come on. Come on.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 42.


INT. TELLER S CAR (TRAVELLING) - DAY5656

Teller and Reed. Heading back to the SCU.

INT. SCU, WAITING ROOM - DAY5757

Mark checks his watch. 11.48. Nervousness has become anxiety.

                                  MARK
                I m sorry - but is this going to take 
                much longer? 

                                  SCHENK
                No. No, I think you ve told me all I 
                need to know. But I wonder if you 
                wouldn t mind waiting just a little 
                while longer? This insight into his 
                mental state, it may be of value.

                                  MARK
                Well, where else do I have to go?

Schenk nods, almost penitent. And quietly exits. 

INT. SCU, OUTSIDE WAITING ROOM - DAY5858

Mark pokes his head round the corner. The unit is busy. Phones 
ringing. Personnel on computers.  

He steps onto the unit - nobody pays him the slightest 
attention. He takes an EXPERIMENTAL STEP.

Nothing. A second step. Then a third, more confident. 

He orientates himself, mumbling under his breath. 

                                  MARK
                      (mumbles)
                Luther s office - 12 O clock. Turn to 
                one, two o clock.

Okay. He heads off - where? 

INT. TELLER S CAR (TRAVELLING) - DAY5959

Teller and Reed. Closer to the SCU. Reed glances anxiously at 
his watch. Come on, come on, come on.

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - DAY6060

Mark enters the locker room! Stands there for a moment, taking 
in a series of BREATHS. Can he really go through with this?

Yes he can. He glances over his shoulder once more. Then counts 
down the lockers - until he finds IAN REED S.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 43.


He takes a TINY SQUARE OF PAPER from the coin pocket of his 
jeans. The size of a stamp. On it is written a SIX DIGIT 
NUMBER.

Mark begins to enters it into the combination lock attached to 
Reed s locker. 

Hands trembling, Mark struggles to focus. Calm down. Just enter 
the combination and open the door.

He s JUST FINISHED entering the combination when he stops. 

Eyes wide. Heart pounding. Hears:

INT. SCU - CONTINUOUS6161

CO19 OFFICERS march Ripley onto the unit. In cuffs. 

All activity stops. All eyes on Ripley as he s led to the 
Interview Room. 

A moment later, Teller and Reed enter. 

                                  TELLER
                All right. Get on with it.

She heads to her office. Reed heads to his desk.

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - CONTINUOUS6262

Mark knows they re back. He opens the locker door. Hurriedly 
roots around REED S BELONGINGS. Delves around inside the locker 
- until he FINDS THE DIAMONDS! He pockets them, turns to leave -

- and collides with IAN REED, who s coming in! 

A moment. They look at each other.

                                  MARK
                I m sorry - the, um, bathroom? It s -

                                  REED
                Out there, on the right. The flush is 
                broken in the cubicle nearest the 
                wall. You might want to watch that. 

                                  MARK
                Thanks. Appreciate it. Will do.

Menacing beat.

                                  REED
                I m sorry for your loss. She was very 
                special.

                                  MARK
                That s very kind. And yeah. She was.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 44.


A long moment. Both of them knowing.

Reed steps aside. Mark exits.

Angle on Mark s face as he walks away, trying to keep his 
composure.

Then Reed s POV - as Mark walks directly to Schenk -

INT. SCU, RIPLEY S DESK - DAY6363

- who s at Ripley s desk, flipping through the LUCIEN BURGESS 
CASE FILE. 

CLOSE ON CASE FILE:  SUBJECT ALLEGES ASSAULT BY DCI 
  LUTHER ... NO EVIDENCE FOUND ...

                                  SCHENK
                      (closing case file)
                How can I help?

                                  MARK
                I need to be away from here. 

Schenk glances around - the commotion, the stress. Teller s 
closed office door.

                                  SCHENK
                Yes, possibly that is for the best. We 
                could arrange an escort, a protective 
                detail - 

                                  MARK
                I don t think Luther will be back.

                                  SCHENK
                Even so, I hope you re not alone. It s 
                not healthy. You should be with 
                friends, family. People who love you.

                                  MARK
                Thank you. I do have - somewhere to 
                go.

                                  SCHENK
                  Excellent.

Mark glances at Reed.

                                  MARK
                Would you mind? I d to...have a word. 
                  Privately. Outside?

                                  SCHENK
                Well, there s nowhere more private 
                than in here.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 45.


                                  MARK
                Just a word. In the fresh air.

                                  SCHENK
                As you wish.

A beat between them. Then Mark exits - with Schenk as his 
unknowing BODYGUARD. 

Mark is aware of REED S EYES, watching from the locker room 
doorway. 

He fights not to look. It s a superhuman effort.

He and Schenk reach the door. Exit. 

OMITTED6464

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM6565

Reed turns, opens his locker. And confirms it. Shit! He 
searches for the diamonds with increasing desperation - and 
finally, inexpressible fury.

He gets himself together, then reaches deep into the locker - 
and FREES SOMETHING. A BLACK BOX about the size of a box of 
matches. Magnetic. We saw him fit it, earlier.

He slams the locker door and storms from the locker room. 

EXT. STREETS, MARK S CAR - DAY6666

Mark and Schenk pause outside Mark s car.

                                  SCHENK
                What was it you wanted to say?

                                  MARK
                It doesn t matter.

                                  SCHENK
                Mr North -

                                  MARK
                  Seriously. It doesn t matter. It was 
                nothing.

A beat, then Schenk concedes with a shrug. 

                                  SCHENK
                As you say.

Mark gets in. Exhales. Drives away. Schenk watching.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - DAY6767

Reed enters. He attaches ONE END of a USB CABLE to the box, the 
OTHER END to his COMPUTER - and we see - it s a PINHOLE CAMERA.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 46.


A few clicks of the mouse and he s downloading JERKY BLACK AND 
WHITE IMAGES of MARK NORTH TAKING THE DIAMONDS.

Reed snarls. Evokes MARK NORTH S DETAILS on the computer. Lifts 
his phone.

                                  REED
                Yeah, DCI Reed here. Listen, do me a 
                favour, yeah? Do me a quick track and 
                trace, soon as?
                      (beat)
                Cheers. Name s Mark North, that s Mark 
                North, mobile number is 021 -

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY67A67A

Schenk enters - just as Reed exits. 

They pass each other in the doorway. A brief, courteous nod. 

When Reed has gone, Schenk turns. Deeply concerned. Not quite 
knowing why. Not quite.

But closer. Definitely closer.

I/E. STREETS, MARK S CAR - DAY67B67B

Mark pulls over. Takes a moment to calm himself. Then takes a 
HAND DRAWN MAP from the glove compartment. It shows the rough 
FLOOR-PLAN of a LARGE BUILDING. Arrows have been drawn, leading 
from the MAIN DOOR to a SMALL CENTRAL ROOM.

He takes out his mobile. Dials. 

                                  MARK
                I m on my way.

EXT. REED S CAR, STREETS - DAY6969

Reed hurries to his car. Opens the boot. 

Lifts up a SAWN OFF SHOTGUN, wraps it in a grey blanket, 
removes it.

Gets in the driver s seat. Lays the shotgun in the front 
passenger footwell.

INT. MARK S CAR - DAY7070

Mark at the wheel, the map on the seat next to him.

INT. REED S CAR - DAY7171

Reed at the wheel. Following Mark on the IN-CAR GPS.

OMITTED7272

OMITTED7373                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 47.


OMITTED7474

INT. SCU, RIPLEY S DESK - DAY7575

Schenk is at Ripley s desk. He s watching and listening to the 
GRAINY VIDEO PLAYBACK of LUTHER AND REED S EARLIER MEETING. 

Luther leans forward. Grins. Whispers in Reed s ear. 

Schenk can t hear what he says - it wasn t picked up by the 
mics. Then:

                                  LUTHER (ON SCREEN)
                Tick tick tick. Where did they go? 
                Where could they have gone?

Schenk is greatly perplexed now. He plays it again. 

                                  LUTHER (ON SCREEN) (cont d)
                Tick tick tick. Where did they go? 
                Where could they have gone?

Fast forward.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (jumps to his feet)
                JOHN! RUN!

Suddenly, Schenk whirls, exits, heads to the interview room

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY7777

Ripley is at the desk, a glass of water before him. Deeply 
depressed.

Schenk enters. Pulls up a chair. 

                                  SCHENK
                How long did you want to be a police 
                officer, Justin?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (perplexed)
                Since I can remember. Why?

                                  SCHENK
                And why? Why a police officer?

                                  RIPLEY
                Does it matter?

                                  SCHENK
                Who can tell? 

INTERCUT SCHENK - with REED following MARK                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 48.


                                  SCHENK (cont d)
                You ve got brothers, sisters, a big 
                family.

                                  RIPLEY
                Pretty big.

                                  SCHENK
                They re proud of you?

                                  RIPLEY
                Yes.

                                  SCHENK
                Family s important to you, isn t it? 
                Family, trust, loyalty. And rules. 
                Rules are important too.

                                  RIPLEY
                Yes.

Schenk slams his fist down on the desk, shocking Ripley. 

                                  SCHENK
                So why throw it all away? For nothing? 
                You re not a fool. You re not corrupt, 
                either. So why? 

Silence.

                                  SCHENK (cont d)
                      (shouts)
                What do you have to lose? Your pride, 
                your self respect? Your job? Well, 
                they re gone! What s going on Justin? 
                  Something s happening that no-one else 
                can quite see! Well I want to see it! 
                What s HAPPENING!?

EXT. DECAYED WAREHOUSE, INDUSTRIAL WASTELAND - DAY7878

We ve come FULL CIRCLE. This place is very similar to the place 
we met John Luther - wild eyed and vengeful, in Episode 1.

Mark s car pulls up. Parks in front of a BROODING MONOLITH of a 
DECAYED WAREHOUSE.

A long, silent beat. Then Mark gets out. Map in hand. We see 
now that it corresponds to the old warehouse, marking a route 
within.

Mark approaches the door. The only sound...his footsteps on 
gravel. The door is blocked by massive sheets of corrugated 
iron.

He hauls aside the corrugated door. Horrible screech of metal 
on metal. He steps into the dripping gloom.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 49.


INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE - DAY7979

Stands there for a moment in the semi-darkness, lit by shafts 
of sunlight which smash through gaps in the ceiling, making the 
space almost cathedral-like. 

The floor is littered with mysterious, random debris - shopping 
carts, shattered vinyl LPS, rotting collections of old 
magazines. 

He orientates himself, using the hand-drawn map. 

EXT. INDUSTRIAL WASTE LAND - DAY8080

Two hundred metres away, hidden by the corner of another 
building, Reed s car pulls up. 

INT. REED S CAR, INDUSTRIAL WASTE LAND - DAY8181

  Businesslike, Reed turns off his phone. Pockets it. Gathers up 
the sawn-off shotgun. Shoves a handful of shells into his 
pocket. Then gets out. 

EXT. INDUSTRIAL WASTE LAND - DAY8282

Reed squat-runs towards the old warehouse - reaches the door - 
eases himself through. Slow and silent.  

INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE - DAY8383

Stands in the darkness where Mark stood. Forces himself to be 
still. 

Listens.

The steady plip of water. The winter breeze playing through the 
boards on the windows, whipping up the pages of the discarded 
magazines.

A footstep.

Which way? That way. 

Reed sets off in pursuit of Mark. 

INTERCUT MARK and REED

Mark follows the map through the old building. His progress is 
hesitant, slow, apprehensive. He s alert to the looming 
darkness. His smallness. His helplessness. 

Reed on his heels. A fleet predator. Coming closer.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY8484

Teller is with Cornish. Teller squeezes half a dozen Nurofen 
into her palm, dry-swallows them.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 50.


                                  TELLER
                We ve thrown everything we ve got 
                after him. Even the Met s being 
                  cooperative.

                                    CORNISH
                Oh, the Met s loving it - our hour of 
                need. 

                                  TELLER
                - but candidly, sir, if Luther s gone 
                to ground we ll never shake him loose. 
                Chances are, he s in Berlin by now. Or 
                halfway to St Petersburg. Somewhere 
                bookish.

The DOOR SLAMS OPEN. Schenk enters. Breathless.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                Excuse me. 

                                    CORNISH
                What is it, Martin?

                                  SCHENK
                We need to find Detective Chief 
                  Inspector Reed. Most urgently.

INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE - DAY8585

Reed stalks Mark deeper and deeper into the darkness - the 
sound of Mark s shuffling footfalls echoing, reverberating. 

Reed s strides are slow, precise, almost silent. 

He follows Mark along a metal walkway and, at last, into -

INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE, FINAL ROOM - DAY8686

- the final room. 

It s dark, slippery underfoot. Machine parts, mouldy items of 
baby clothing. An ancient stereo. 

Mark makes his way across this awful place - heading for the 
door in the opposite corner -

                                  MARK
                      (whispers)
                I ve got it!

Behind him, Reed enters the room. 

Hearing Mark s whisper, he knows he s near his goal. He raises 
the shotgun to his shoulder - 

- and watches Mark step into the shadows of the NEXT ROOM.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 51.


Which is where Luther must be.

Reed sprints quietly forward.

Then STOPS.

Something s wrong. 

He turns, raising the gun -

Too late! 

LUTHER EMERGES FROM THE DARKNESS BEHIND HIM - slips the 
garrotte over Reed s throat - pulls it tight -

Reed tries to cry out - strangulated - he clutches at the 
garrotte with one hand - wildly discharging the shot-gun with 
the other - 

- the sound deafening, reverberating, thunderous in the 
confined space - 

INT. DERELICT WAREHOUSE, ANTE-ROOM - DAY8787

A small ante-room. No way out. 

Mark stands in the doorway. Watching Luther and Reed. Stunned.

Behind him, Alice appears - cups a hand to his mouth, leads him 
into the darkness. Finger to her lips. Shhh.

                                  MARK
                This was the plan? Have him follow me 
                here -?!

Her silence all the answer he needs.

                                  MARK (cont d)
                Why didn t you tell me?

                                  ALICE
                Because he d have seen it in you - and 
                it wouldn t have worked. 

Mark breaks from her grip. Goes to the doorway. Witnesses the 
TITANIC STRUGGLE between Luther and Reed.

INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE, FINAL ROOM - DAY8888

Luther and Reed are locked in a death struggle - Reed trying to 
free himself of the garrotte while trying to twist, turn the 
shotgun on Luther -

- Luther is choking Reed with the garotte, the terrible 
exertion etched into every line on his face, every bulging vein 

Reed discharges the weapon again - wildly -                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 52.


- causing Luther to falter, lose his footing - Reed uses the 
moment - kicks backwards - driving Luther into the wall. 

Luther falls - lets go of the garrotte -

Reed backs away. Nervous hands shake, fumbling with the sawn-
off as he cracks it open. 

Luther gets to his feet. Comes at Reed. Head lowered. Not 
rushing. A force of nature. Nemesis.

Reed backs away, fumbling, ejecting the spent cartridges. 

                                  REED
                So you ve got Ripley doing your dirty 
                work for you, your dead wife s 
                  boyfriend stealing for you. What is 
                about you, John, eh? 

Luther is closer. Murder in his eyes. Reed loads new cartridges 
into the breach. 

                                  REED (cont d)
                You corrupt everyone around you. You 
                spoil everything. You turn everything 
                to shit.

He puts the shot-gun to his shoulder. 

Too late. 

Luther darts forward - grabs the barrel - wrests the gun from 
Reed s hands - throws Reed into the wall.  

Reed hits the wall with bone crunching impact. Luther puts the 
shotgun to his forehead.

They stand there. Locked in eye contact. Luther s eyes burn 
with hatred. 

                                  LUTHER
                All this. All this. What you did.

                                  REED
                What do you want me to say? I wish I 
                hadn t killed her? I do. I wish I 
                hadn t done it. I didn t want to. But 
                I did it. And now here we are. So do 
                what you need to do. Just commit.

                                  LUTHER
                She begged. She begged you.

Luther s intense rage. The finger tense on the trigger. 

                                  REED
                Come on! Get it over with. It ll be a 
                relief. I m sick of it.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 53.


                                  LUTHER
                I know. 
                      (long beat)
                But I didn t come here to kill you, 
                Ian. 

Luther steps away. Takes A DICTAPHONE from his pocket. Rewinds. 

                                  REED (ON TAPE)
                I didn t go there meaning to do it. 
                But I did it. And now, here we are. So 
                do what you need to do. Just commit.

A beat.

                                  LUTHER
                Plus you ll have set up a camera in 
                your locker. That ll help.

Reed laughs. Bleak admiration in it. 

                                  REED
                So all this - meeting me, sending her 
                  boyfriend to the station, stealing the 
                  diamonds. It was all a play? You set 
                me up? To get a confession?

                                  LUTHER
                Pretty much.

                                  REED
                If I was you, I d ve killed me.

                                  LUTHER
                There s nothing I d like more.

                                  REED
                So do it. You know this is the end for 
                me. I ve come so far, I don t even 
                care. I just want out of it.

Luther wavers. Sorely tempted.

                                  LUTHER
                No.

                                  REED
                Why not?

                                  LUTHER
                Because I choose not to.

Beat.

                                  REED
                She ever tell you about her and me? 
                Zoe? Oh, she didn t. Of course not. I 
                knew that.                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 54.


                                  LUTHER
                What do you mean?

                                  REED
                It started one night - you d stayed 
                away once too often. Working.

                                  LUTHER
                This won t work.

                                  REED
                She cried afterwards. Washed the 
                sheets. That s one of my memories of 
                her - naked, crying, stuffing the 
                sheets into the washing machine, get 
                rid of the evidence. Calling me a 
                bastard, an arsehole. But she made me 
                do it again before I left. How could I 
                say no?

                                  LUTHER
                It s not going to work, Ian.

                                  REED
                She said I taught her how to really 
                come.

Luther jams the gun to Reed s forehead, hard. 

                                  LUTHER
                You can t play me. You can t make me 
                do it. You don t get to choose.

                                  REED
                No, I can t play you! You re John 
                Luther! Who sees all and knows all! 

                                  LUTHER
                ENOUGH! 

                                  REED
                Over the course of a marriage that 
                long, that unhappy? A woman that 
                needy? How many of us were there? 
                Quite a few, I expect. Maybe you knew 
                about some of them, deep down. But I 
                think I was her favourite.

                                  LUTHER
                NO MORE, IAN! STOP! 

                                  REED
                  - because I was her revenge. Every 
                orgasm she took from me was to pay you 
                back. 

Luther can t contain it any more - he BELLOWS his rage - 
strikes Reed with the barrel of the gun -                                           LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 55.


- throws the gun away. It goes skittering over the floor. 

Luther takes Reed s throat in his hand. 

                                  LUTHER
                No. More. 

                                  REED
                And she was so ashamed. That s what 
                got me. She hated herself, but she 
                couldn t stop it. 

Luther squeezes harder still. Just hate in his eyes now. 

He s choking Reed. Killing him.

Reed s eyes roll white in the sockets. His feet kick. On 
instinct, he grabs Luther s wrists, struggles. 

But Luther s too strong. Reed s legs begin to spasm.

Luther looks into his eyes. Watching the light leave them.

                                  LUTHER
                How does it feel, eh? You murdering 
                bastard! HOW DOES IT FEEL?

The rage builds...and builds...until he s screaming 
incoherently - 

And then - it s gone.

Luther loosens his grip. Steps back. And stands, blinking over 
the half-choked Reed.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                No. 

He gets himself together. Wipes the tears from his eyes. 

Hauls Reed to his feet. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Ian Reed, I m arresting you for the 
                murder of Zoe Luther. You do not have 
                to say anything - 

But he s given Reed room to REACH BEHIND HIS BACK - and free 
the KNIFE he carries there. Reed lunges -

And STABS LUTHER. 

Luther reels - clutching his ribs, blood surging between his 
fingers. Shock on his face.

He stumbles, falls to his knees. Reed kicks him in the guts. 
Luther crumples.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 56.


                                  REED
                      (weeping)
                You should have done it. Now look what 
                you re making me do.
                      (kicks)
                Look!
                      (kicks)
                LOOK!
                      (kicks)
                LOOK WHAT YOU RE MAKING ME DO! YOU 
                SHOULD HAVE STOPPED ME! LOOK WHAT 
                YOU RE MAKING ME DO!

Then he STOPS.

TURNS

To see Alice. Holding the shotgun.

After a confused beat, he recognises her.  

                                  REED (cont d)
                Are you -?

                                  ALICE
                Yep.
                      (smiles winningly)
                He swore he wasn t going to kill you. 
                He thought the humiliation of prison 
                would be worse. The beatings, the 
                rapes, the incessant fear for your 
                life. I told him, no - he was wrong. 
                Dying would be worse. Because honestly 
                - well it is, isn t it. Dying s just 
                worse.

Luther crawls away, dripping blood - tries to stand. Can t - 
not quite. Supports himself with the wall. 

He glances between Alice and Reed. His breathing is bad. 

Alice advances. Raising the shotgun.

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                So? Do I pull the trigger or not?

                                  LUTHER
                No.

                                  ALICE
                Well, I m in favour. Which leaves us 
                  fifty-fifty, with one vote left to 
                cast. Mark?

A beat, then Mark steps slowly into the room. Taking it all in.  

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                What do you think?                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 57.


Mark is in an agony of grief and sorrow. It s harrowing, just 
to look at him.

                                  MARK
                      (to Reed)
                You re a liar. 

                                  LUTHER
                He is. He s a liar. He can t face 
                prison. He couldn t stand it. 

                                  ALICE
                Deciding vote, Mark.

Reed stands there - eyes locked with Mark.

                                  MARK
                It s not enough to take her life? 
                Where s your RESPECT? Where s your 
                SHAME?! 

                                  LUTHER
                Don t listen to him. He wants to die. 
                Don t give him what he wants. Don t do 
                it. 

                                  REED
                She didn t look like a whore, did she? 
                Not dressed, anyway. Strip her down, 
                roll her round a bit...it was a 
                  different story.

                                  MARK
                STOP! JUST STOP! 

                                  LUTHER
                Mark, I know how much you want to do 
                this. But don t. Not for him; he 
                doesn t matter. For yourself. Because 
                giving in to this, this anger, wanting 
                to kill someone - 

Mark glances at him.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                - it changes you and everything around 
                you. You want to be like you 
                  were...but you can t, because that 
                person s gone. That s how I lost Zoe 
                in the first place. So don t do this 
                to yourself. Please. Don t.

Mark wavers. Torn. Until -

                                  REED
                It s a waste, really. She had a few 
                good rides left in her.                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 58.


Mark s face twists in disgust. He turns to Alice.

                                  MARK
                Do it.

No hesitation. Alice pulls the trigger. Reed is BLASTED INTO 
THE AIR by the energy of the shot. Falling in a screwed-up heap 
in the corner

Luther, Alice and Mark stand in shocked silence. 

Bound together now. 

Luther can barely breathe.

Alice wears the tiny hint of a satisfied smile.

Then - Luther hears it first. He frowns. Turns. 

                                  LUTHER
                Oh no.

                                  MARK
                What?

Alice and Mark turn to it. It s growing louder.

Sirens.

EXT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE - DAY8989

EIGHT MARKED SQUAD CARS and SEVERAL VANS surround the warehouse 
at all angles. UNIFORMED OFFICERS, an ARMED ASSAULT TEAM. A 
HELICOPTER passes by overhead. 

Schenk, Teller and Cornish make their way towards the decaying 
warehouse, the corrugated iron door - 


                                                                        SMASH CUT TO

INT. DECAYING WAREHOUSE, FINAL ROOM - DAY9090

Luther, Alice and Mark. 

The blood. The knife. The wound to Luther s ribs. The shotgun 
in Alice s hand. 

The corpse of Ian Reed.

Off screen, the sound of HELICOPTERS. 

CLOSE ON: Luther s face.*

                                  LUTHER
                What now?                                          LUTHER EP 6, DRAFT 003 Page 59.


And*

                                                      SMASH CUT TO - END TITLES*