EXT. LOW RISE ESTATE, LANE - NIGHT 4 - 22.1911

From the street, the CORPSE OF A YOUNG MAN is almost hidden - 
by darkness, industrial bins, backstreet litter: crates and 
boxes and bottles. A human being who s been thrown away like 
  garbage.

  A POLICE CARscreams to the kerb, its lightbarcasting the 
filthy walls in flashing blue. Two UNIFORMED OFFICERSemerge - 
STEVE GORMAN and MIKE EPPLEY. Both in their early 30s. 

They approach the lane. Produce torches. Probe the darkness as 
they move forward. 

  Restless torch beams settle on a PALE HAND. A TOUSLED HEAD. A 
pool of BLOOD.

Tension as Gorman s hand goes to his BATON. He and Eppleyedge 
into the darkness, sweeping it with the torches. 

                                    GORMAN
                  Lima Sierra 37 to Control. Confirm: we 
                do have an IC1down. Possible gunshot 
                  wounds, over. 

                                    DESPATCH (V.O.)
                  Received, Lima Sierra 37. Ambulance en 
                  route, corner of NorthlightRoad and 
                  CobdenLane, eta four minutes, over.

Gorman takes his hand from his baton. About to stoop and 
examine the body -

When the  body  turns - raises a GLOCKREVOLVER - SHOOTS GORMAN 
TWICE in the chest. 

LEAPS to his feet - asEppleyTURNS TO RUN- slips. Loses his 
  footing. 

The gunman SHOOTS HIM TWICE IN THE BACK. 

The gunman approaches Eppley sbody. Nudges him with a toe. 

He squats. Inspects Eppley sDUTY BELT. From the RADIO POUCH he 
removes Eppley sHANDHELD TRANSCEIVER. He substitutes it for an 
ALMOST IDENTICAL MODEL. Refastens the Velcro on the radio 
pouch. Listens for a moment to CHATTER on the radio. Then 
unzips his BLOOD-SOAKED JACKET, revealing a HOODIEunderneath. 
Removes the jacket as he fades into the intense darkness of the 
lane.

Leaving two dead officers. Their eyes, their blood, reflecting 
the flashing lightbarof their empty car.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 2.


EXT. SCU, ROOF - DAY 5 - SUNRISE 07.3622

JOHN LUTHER stands dangerously close to the very edge of the 
  precipice - London glorious in the morning sun, shining like 
the city of God - laid out below him.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 5 - 07.3833

Reed sips coffee. He s watching a live VIDEO FEED FROM THE 
  INTERVIEW ROOM.

ANGLE ON SCREEN: MARK NORTH is being questioned by Rose Teller.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 5 - 07.3844

Mark and Teller. 

                                    TELLER
                  Thanks for coming in so early. As you 
                  know, DCILuther is facing a charge of 
                  assault occasioning actual bodily 
                  harm. These are matters we take very 
                  seriously indeed, but I need to hear 
                  from you, MrNorth, without prejudice, 
                  exactly what happened yesterday.

                                    MARK
                  Look, the truth is - Luther was 
                  defending himself. I m not proud of 
                  this, but I threw the first punch. And 
                  honestly - I do think the police went 
                in a bit heavy-handed.

                                    TELLER
                        (quietly flabbergasted)
                  Well, I thank you for your candour. I 
                  will ask you to sign a statement to 
                  this effect - 

                                    MARK
                  That s why I m here.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 5 - 07.3955

Reed phones Luther.

EXT. SCU, ROOF - DAY 5 - 07.3966

Luther standing there. His phone rings. He ignores it.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 5 - 07.3977

Reed gets voicemail.Mutters a curse to himself.

EXT. HOBB LANE, EXT./INT. MARK S CAR -  DAY 5 - 08.1788

Mark exits - walks to his CAR, waiting at the kerb with Zoe at 
the wheel. He gets in. Exhales long and hard.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 3.


                                  ZOE
                  I know how hard that was for you. 

                                    MARK
                I m fine.
                          (checkswatch)
                  Although I might work from home today.

                                  ZOE
                        (kisses him)
                  Thank you.

She starts the engine, pulls away.

EXT. SCU, ROOF - DAY 5 - 08.2199

Reed ascends, slightly breathless. Sees Luther - close to the 
edge. Looking for all the world like a man about to jump.

He ambles over, joins him on the edge.

                                    REED
                  Nice view.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah. Squint a bit, you can see all 
                the kingdoms of the world.

                                    REED
                You might want to start answering your 
                  phone.

                                    LUTHER
                Get a reputation for answering phones, 
                all they do is ring. 

                                    REED
                You spoken to Zoe?

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    REED
                  Then you should know that Mark North 
                  gave you a pass.He s not pressing 
                  charges. 
                        (offLuther s bitter laugh)
                So how about we finish the chat away 
                  from the edge.

                                    LUTHER
                You never do this? Come to a high 
                  place, imagine what it would be like 
                to fall?

                                    REED
                  Fall or jump?          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 4.


                                    LUTHER
                  Same thing. 

                                    REED
                Beg to differ. But no. Mostly I go 
                  home, watch America s Next Top Model. 
                So what s with the, y know-?

                                    LUTHER
                  Thinking.

                                    REED
                  About?

                                    LUTHER
                You ever worry you might be on the 
                  devil s side without knowing it?

                                    REED
                  Nope. 

They look down. Long way. 

                                    REED(cont d)
                Let it go, John.

                                    LUTHER
                  I already let him go -

He whistles - and gestures to conjure Madsen s falling body

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  - just not far enough to do the job 
                  properly. 

                                    REED
                And nobody shed a tear.

                                    LUTHER
                  That doesn t make it right. 

                                    REED
                  Makes it a bit less wrong, though. 

Luther stares down.

                                    REED (cont d)
                You going to jump?

                                    LUTHER
                  Probably not.

                                    REED
                You want me to push you? Thus 
                  restoring balance to the universe?

                                    LUTHER
                Not especially.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 5.


                                    REED
                  Then I m bored of this game.

He turns from the edge. Luther lingers. And Reed wonders - just 
for a moment - if he might actually jump.

Then Luther digs his phone from his pocket, joins him. 

                                    LUTHER
                You headed back to the factory?

                                    REED
                  I ve been on eighteen hours straight - 
                I m going home, mate. You should try 
                it.

                                    LUTHER
                  I might.

His phone beeps. Incoming message. He picks it up, scans it.

ANGLE ON PHONE: DETECTIVE SUPERINTENDENT TELLER. 

                                    LUTHER (cont d)
                Or I might not. 

SCENE 10 OMITTED1010

EXT. LOW RISE ESTATE, LANE - DAY 5 - 09.371111

Luther and Ripleyat the crime scene. Hands always in pockets, 
Luther is agitated, wandering. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  This is Steve Gorman. Over here, this 
                is Mike Eppley.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah.

                                    RIPLEY
                You knew them?

                                    LUTHER
                  Little bit, yeah.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Sorry.

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t be sorry. If you see Gorman and 
                  Eppley, you ll go blind. So see the 
                  scene. Tell me what you see.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Right. So Gorman was shot at close 
                  range - double tap to the chest.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 6.


                                    LUTHER
                  Entry wounds two, three inches apart. 
                  That s good shooting. 

Luther stoops to examine the pool of blood in which the  dead 
man  had lain. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  It s real blood - but it won t be the 
                  shooter s. It ll be a stray cat, a 
                  dog. We ll find its body in one of 
                  these bins. 

Reaches out, almost touches a couple of small BLOOD SPLATTERS. 
The directionality of the splatter-pattern leads towards one of 
the INDUSTRIAL BINS. 

Luther goes to the bin - peers inside - turns away - revolted 
by the stink. Then shines his torch inside. Hmmm.He takes a 
  BIROfrom his pocket, roots around inside the bin - and 
  produces a BLOOD-SOAKED JACKET. 

Shows it to Ripley.Then lowers it into the bin.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  This is an execution.

                                    RIPLEY
                It can t be. There dbe no way for the 
                  shooter to know Gorman and Eppley
                  would attend this particular call-out.

                                    LUTHER
                  I didn t say he was targeting Gorman 
                and Eppley.I said it was an 
                  execution.

                                    RIPLEY
                  I don t understand what that means.

Luther looks down - into the dead eyes of Steve Gorman. No 
answer there. Just the mild surprise of the recently murdered.

                                    LUTHER
                Nor do I.

EXT. LOW RISE ESTATE, MOUTH OF LANE - DAY 5 - 09.441212

Luther and Ripley push through the commotion, head to their 
car. They re confronted by CORINNE DAY (34) a PUSHY TV 
  JOURNALIST. Her CAMERAMAN is behind her, camera off. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Morning, Corinne. Excuse me. 

                                    CORINNE
                Any suspects, John? Off the record?

Luther shoves through, pushes on.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 7.


                                      CORINNE(cont d)
                  You ve got my number -

                                    LUTHER
                  Memorised. Six, six, six.

                                    CORINNE
                  Direct line. 

Luther gives her a grin as he and Ripleypush on to the car.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 5 - 11.211313

The SERIOUS CRIME UNIT is far busier than we ve yet seen it - 
PLAIN CLOTHED OFFICERS come and go, operate desk phones, 
computers. An air of grim purpose. 

  Ripleyis reviewing CCTV FOOTAGE. Luther approaches. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Anything?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Could be.

  Ripleyunfolds a PAPER MAP. He s drawn a bullseyeon it using a 
red marker pen - which he now uses as a pointing tool. 

                                    RIPLEY(cont d)
                  CobdenLane links NorthlightRoad and 
                  StockwoodHill...here to here. 

Ripley hits a key. We see CCTV FOOTAGE OF AN EMPTY STREET. Into 
frame walks a MAN IN A HOODY.RIPLEYhits PAUSE. The image is 
frozen, grainy, ghostly.

                                    RIPLEY(cont d)
                  Less than three minutes after the 
                  shooting, this man crossed the road 
                  half a kilometrefrom the Stockwood
                  Hill exit.

CCTV FOOTAGE: the man crosses the deserted street. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That s it? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Lucky to get that. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Where does he go?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Ducks behind shops on Hamilton Row. 
                  Behind that, there s another lane. 
                  Gives onto allotments, gardens, a 
                  canal...          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 8.


                                    LUTHER
                No more CCTV?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Coverage is spotty at best. Plus, most 
                  cameras in the area have been 
                  vandalised.

                                    LUTHER
                  Vandalisedwhen?

                                    RIPLEY
                        (checks paperwork)
                  Four were reported down -
                        (sees it)
                  - four went down Monday night. 

                                    LUTHER
                The shooter took them out. So we need 
                to go back, review footage taken seven 
                  days before the sabotage, see if we 
                  can t catch our man on a recce.Let me 
                  hear the 999 call again.

Ripley hits keys. Luther keeps watching the looped CCTV 
  footage.

                                  999 DESPATCH (RECORDED)
                  You re through to the police, caller.

                                    OWEN (RECORDED)
                  There s been a shooting. A man is 
                  lying face-down at the Northlightend 
                of CobdenLane. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That s an efficient call-  essential 
                  information, no ambiguity. Like he 
                  knows his Voice Procedure. 
                          (considersthe CCTV images)
                  People leaving scene of crime...they 
                  hunch, look at the ground, avoid eye-
                  contact. Or do that stupid alpha male 
                  swagger. This man - he s got a 
                  straight back, square shoulders. He s 
                  calm, alert, attentive to his 
                  surroundings. Like he s -
                        (grins as he sees it)
                  Pound to a penny, he s armed forces. 

                                    RIPLEY
                You get that from this?          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 9.


                                    LUTHER
                You ever walk into a pub, cafe,  
                  whatever, know straight away the bloke 
                  next to you s a copper?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Sometimes, yeah.

                                    LUTHER
                  I grew up around soldiers. The way he 
                  shoots, the way he talks, the way he 
                  walks. He s a soldier. 

The predator s glee fades - Luther grabs a chair from a nearby 
desk - hauls it over - sits very close to Ripley. Low and fast.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                We need to look at armed forces 
                  personnel who vesuffered at the hands 
                of the police. Dig up aggravated 
                  arrest complaints - filed by veterans 
                on behalf of themselves, friends, 
                  family.

                                    RIPLEY
                  It ll be a long list. Soldiers back 
                  from war, they don t find it easy. 
                  They get depressed, they drink, they 
                  fight - they get arrested.

                                    LUTHER
                  Justin, this was an execution - but 
                the assassin can t have been targeting 
                  Gorman and Eppley.So what if that 
                  means he was targeting their uniforms?

A beat as this sinks in. Ripley glances round the busy unit.

                                    RIPLEY
                Got you. I m on it. 

  Luther s phone rings. He pats Ripley sshoulder, then stands, 
  checking it out. ALICE MORGAN.

He rolls his eyes - heads to his office, shuts the door.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE  - DAY 5 - 11.241414

Turns his back on the unit, paces as he talks.

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you want?

INT. HOSPITAL, MADSEN S ROOM - DAY 5 - 11.241515

Henry Madsen. Deep in coma. Hooked up to an EEGthat shows 
minimal brainwave activity. 

Next to him sits Alice Morgan!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 10.


She s wearing a WIG. CLOSE ON HER we notice her VISITOR S 
BADGE. A photo, the name INGRID JONES, a stamp identifying her 
as coming from CHRISTIAN MEDICAL OUTREACH.

  A POLICE OFFICER stands guard at the door. Drinking tea, 
reading a newspaper.

                                    ALICE
                  I ve been reading Bertrand Russell to 
                  a friend of yours. 
                        (reads)
                   Often the good suffer, and often the 
                  wicked prosper, and one hardly knows 
                  which of those is the more annoying. 

  INTERCUT LUTHER and ALICE

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you mean? Where are you?

                                    ALICE
                If only he could speak. What tales he 
                  could tell.

Out on her smile - and Luther s horror as he hangs up.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 5 - 11.281616

Luther strides back through to Ripley sdesk.

                                    LUTHER
                  What vewe got?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Half a dozen names hit key markers - 
                  mostly drunk and disorderly, 
                  aggravated assaults. But I m thinking, 
                  meh- not enough for our boy. 

                                    LUTHER
                So broaden the search parameters - 
                  include veterans of the first Gulf 
                  War, Northern Ireland. Go back to the 
                  Falklands - he s in there somewhere.

Ripley gets to work as Luther exits.

INT. HOSPITAL - CORRIDORS - DAY 5 - 12.3016A16A

Luther strides down the corridor - badges the GUARD outside 
  Madsen s room. 

                                    LUTHER
                Get yourself a cup of coffee. I need 
                  five minutes.

INT. HOSPITAL - MADSEN S ROOM - DAY 5 - 12.3016B16B

Alice looks up and over her book as Luther enters.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 11.


                                    LUTHER 
                  What are you doing? 

She stands. Folds over a page - puts down the book. They face  
each other over Madsen smotionless body. 

                                    ALICE
                  Investigating you. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know what that means.

                                    ALICE
                It means I m curious about how Henry  
                  came to be here, like this.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well there s no need to be curious. He 
                  killed children. I caught him. He 
                  tried to run away. He fell.

                                    ALICE
                And who actually believes that?

                                    LUTHER
                  Everyone who matters.

                                    ALICE
                  Zoe, for example?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes.

                                    ALICE
                  Because do you know what I think?

                                    LUTHER
                  I couldn t hope to guess, Alice, no. 

                                    ALICE
                  I think you gave in to your true 
                  nature - just for a second - and let 
                him fall. And you couldn t take it. 
                You gave in to guilt and self-
                  loathing. How am I doing? 

                                    LUTHER
                Not so well.

                                    ALICE
                But mostly, you were terrified that 
                Zoe might discover what you d done - 
                and learn what kind of man you 
                  actually are.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                You don t know anything about me, let 
                  alone my marriage.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 12.


                                    ALICE(cont d)
                  I can always ask her myself. See what 
                she says. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Hand to God, Alice. I know this is 
                  sport to you. But you need to stop. 
                  Just stop. Stay away from Zoe. Don t 
                go near her. Don t say a word - not 
                  about any of this. Any of it.

                                    ALICE
                  Why, exactly? Are you scared of what 
                  I ll find out - or what she will?

SCENE 17 OMITTED1717

EXT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - DAY 5 - 15.3517A17A

  Establishing a DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 5 - 15.361818

Long disused. Boards on the windows.

The KILLER, OWEN LYNCH, fills a kettle from a bottle of mineral 
water, puts it to boil on a PRIMUSSTOVE. 

On a rickety chair is balanced an OLD PORTABLE TV. It s plugged 
into a car battery. Owen turns it on.

Doing so, he passes a FORMICA TABLE. On it is laid a HUNTING 
KNIFE - and what could be BOMB MAKING EQUIPMENT.

He turns on the TV, volume low. Lays down the REVOLVER he used 
to kill Gorman and Eppley.

  Finally, he turns on the POLICE RADIO. Listens to the CHATTER 
as the kettle boils.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT, BATHROOM - DAY 5 - 15.381919

Owen pours hot water into the sink - washes - shaves - 
  meticulously combs short hair into a neat parting.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 5 - 15.432020

Owen takes the clothes from the dry cleaner s polytheneand 
begins to dress. Smart trousers, shirt, tie. 

His demeanourlike a nervous young man dressing for a job 
interview. Dressed, he sits at the table and begins to polish 
his shoes - black Kiwi wax, brushes. Like a soldier. 

On the table is a PRINTED SHEET OF A4, weighed down at the 
edges. As Owen polishes his shoes, he reads from the paper. 
  Silently mouths what s written there. Practising.

Also on the table is a CONSUMER VIDEO CAMERA.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 13.


INT. SCU, BULLPEN - NIGHT 5 - 18.042121

  Ripley sdesk is piled high with paperwork: reports, memoranda, 
crime sheets, military records. 

Luther enters. Ripleyraises a hand like a referee, hands him a 
sheet of paper. Luther snatches it from his hand, scans it. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Went back to 1975. Got three names - 

Luther scans the report. 

                                    LUTHER
                  This is him.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - NIGHT 5 - 18.082222

Luther, Teller and Ripley.

Luther passes Teller some ARMY RECORDS. Showing  -

                                    LUTHER
                  Terry Lynch. Ex-46Commando, Royal 
                  Marines. Decorated Veteran. Eighteen 
                  months ago he killed a police officer 
                  while resisting arrest. 

                                    TELLER
                  Yeah, I remember this. Dennis Sorrel. 
                  Decent bloke - he had one of those 
                  whatsitsin his attic - model train, 
                all the landscaping, the trees and the 
                  little people and whatnot. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  A diorama.

                                    TELLER
                  That s the chap.

                                    LUTHER
                  Lynch was drinking, got into an 
                  altercation about the war in 
                  Afghanistan. Dennis Sorrel s first 
                  responder, he tries to calm things 
                  down. Lynch glasses him. Sorrel bleeds 
                  out.

                                    TELLER
                  Yeah. Lynch pleaded combat stress. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  That s maybe not so mad as it sounds. 
                  About ten per cent of the prison 
                  population s comprised of veterans - 
                  twelve thousand from Iraq and 
                  Afghanistan.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 14.


                                    TELLER
                  I don t care what Terry Lynch went 
                  through at Goose sodding Green, Desert 
                  sodding Storm or Operation Enduring 
                  sodding Freedom. It doesn t give him a 
                  free pass to kill coppers.
                        (calms)
                  Besides, he can t be our man. He s 
                  inside - life without possibility.

Luther passes her ANOTHER SET of MILITARY RECORDS. More recent. 
They show Owen Lynch.

                                    LUTHER
                  This is his son - Owen Lynch. Also 46 
                  Commando, Royal Marines. Returned from 
                  Afghanistan last year. Forced to leave 
                  under administrative discharge - 
                  meaning, he s got mental health issues 
                and the army left him high and dry. 

                                    TELLER
                We got an address?

  Ripleypasses her an ARREST SHEET and a SIGNED WITNESS 
STATEMENT.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Statement from his wife, Rachel. She 
                  threw him out because, quote,  the man 
                who came back wasn t the man who 
                  left.  

                                    LUTHER
                He takes it out on her once too often, 
                she throws him out. Which is the last 
                  time he shows on the radar - until 
                  Gorman and Eppleylast night.

                                    TELLER
                But Gorman and Eppleyhad nothing to 
                do with his father being sent down? 

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    TELLER
                Is this as bad as it sounds? 

2323SCENE 23 OMITTED 

EXT. HOUSING OFFICE - DAY 6 - 09.472424

PC JENNY HANSON(27) is at the end of what appears to have been 
a slightly confusing conversation with MRMOON, the Housing 
  Officer.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 15.


                                    HANSON
                  Okay. So you didn t call us. You re 
                  sure it wasn t a member of staff?

MrMoon shrugs, shakes his head - baffled. What can he do?

Hanson along the street, on her radio.

                                    HANSON (cont d)
                  False alarm. Prank call. Okay, that s 
                me done - put the kettle on, over. 

She doesn t notice OWEN. Not until he s STEPPED UP into her 
face. 

She smiles, dodges left. Then right. Smiles, wider, about to 
apologise- 

Then her face falls. 

Because Owen has a GLOCKREVOLVER PRESSED TO HER GUTS. 

                                    HANSON(cont d)
                  Please - 

Owen SHOOTS HER. 

Hanson falls. And Owen walks away. Not dawdling. Not hurrying. 
Just walks away.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 6 - 09.502525

Teller, Luther and Ripleyare interrupted by Reed, who s just 
arrived back at work. Still wearing his outdoor coat.

Teller sees his woeful expression. And knows before he speaks.

                                    TELLER
                  What is it?

                                    REED
                  Sorry, Boss. We ve got another officer 
                  down. HarthillEstate.

EXT. HANSON CRIME SCENE - DAY 6 - 09.522626

A strip of LOCAL SHOPS. And the surreal sight of MEMBERS OF THE 
PUBLIC frozen, not knowing what to do...asJENNY HANSONdrags 
herself bleeding along the pavement. She s terrified. In agony. 
  Clutching at her bleeding gut.

                                    HANSON
                Get away! There s a man with a gun! Go 
                on! Move it! Get yourselves somewhere 
                  safe! Emergency services are en route! 
                  I ll be okay - but please, please make 
                  yourselves safe! Please! Make 
                  yourselves safe!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 16.


Hanson finds a low wall. Props herself against it. Breathing 
  heavily. Trying to control her fear. Listening to the DISTANT 
  CACOPHONYof approaching sirens.

                                    HANSON(cont d)
                  Come on, come on, come on.

EXT. HANSON CRIME SCENE - DAY 6 - 09.542727

We follow the EMERGENCY RESPONSE as it ARRIVES - police cars, 
vans, ambulances. PARAMEDICSare stretcheringHanson to an 
ambulance. 

From Ripley s car emerge Luther and Ripley. 

Luther grabs a UNIFORMED OFFICER - DAVID MARDEL.

                                    LUTHER
                  Where was the shooter?

                                  PC MARDEL
                As far as we can establish, he turned 
                the corner into the street, down here. 
                He just walked right up and shot her.

                                    LUTHER
                  Point blank?

                                  PC MARDEL
                In the abdomen. 

Luther turns. Grabs Ripley.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s not right.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Sir? 

                                    LUTHER
                  It s not right. Last night, he fires 
                six perfect shots in the dark. Now, in 
                  daylight, he messes up. Leaves Hanson 
                  alive. It s not right.

He massages his head, trying to think it through. In the chaos. 
Police officers, people, flashing lights...

And he REALISES. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                Oh no.

He slowly looks up IN HORROR-

EXT. HANSON CRIME SCENE, ROOFTOP - DAY 6 - 09.552828

OWEN is aiming the SNIPER S RIFLE at the scene below. He 
    exhales...squeezesthe trigger....        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 17.


EXT. HANSON CRIME SCENE - DAY 6 - 09.552929

Luther WAVES HIS ARMS ABOVE HIS HEAD, frantic. 

                                    LUTHER
                  EVERYBODY GET DOWN!

Nobody seems to hear him. Just another noise, a point of 
  movement in all this agitation.

  A POLICEMAN (1) collapses with astonishing suddenness, a head 
shot. It s so abrupt that Luther is frozen for half a second - 
then his head snaps in the direction of the GUN SHOT RETORT. 

                                    LUTHER (CONT D)(cont d)
                  TAKE COVER! EVERYBODY TAKE COVER! 

As Luther looks on in horror, POLICEMAN (2) falls, shot in the 
CHEST - 

And now PANIC breaks out. The crowd SCATTERS, SCREAMING.

PC DAVID MARDEL is helping to clearing the confused, panicking 
crowd 

                                  PC MARDEL
                  This way - move this way! Come on!

He takes the elbow of a CONFUSED ELDERLY MAN - and then Mardel 
FALLS! Shot in the neck!

LUTHER hurries to Mardel. Rips off his own tie, bundles it up, 
presses it to the gobettingwound on Mardel s neck.

                                    LUTHER
                  You re okay. You re okay. You re okay.

He scans the skyline -

- as an EERIE SILENCEfalls. Punctuated only by POLICE RADIO 
  CHATTER. From relative safety, a few PEOPLE, are filming the 
scene with raised camera phones.

Blood is pumping onto Luther s hands. Mardel s eyes are bright 
with helpless panic. Luther strokes his brow.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re okay. You re okay. You re okay.

Two police officers lay dead. Mardel fatally wounded. The 
  survivors scan the skyline. Wait. 

A long, silent beat.

EXT. HANSON CRIME SCENE, ROOFTOP - DAY 6 - 09.553030

Owen slips the rifle into a sports bag. Zips it up. Slips away. 

SCENE 30AOMITTED30A30A        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 18.


INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 6 - 11.303131

MUCH BUSTLE AND ACTIVITY - PHONES RINGING, being answered, 
  PERSONNEL in a hurry to be places. Ripley is at his desk, quiet 
in all the chaos. He s looking at PICTURES OF HANSON, EPPLEY
AND GORMAN. And listening to the RADIO.

                                    CORINNE DAY (V/OON RADIO)
                  Despite the Metropolitan Police s 
                  strident denials, there is a sense on 
                the streets of London that the police 
                  presence is being greatly reduced in 
                  response to these killings. And amid 
                the reassurances, a larger question 
                  remains unanswered: after an 
                  unprecedented six fatalities in less 
                  than 24 hours, can the emergency 
                  services afford to maintain their 999 
                  response commitment to the ordinary 
                  people of the capital? This is Corrine 
                  Day, BBCNews, London.

Reed approaches. Sees the state of Ripley. Pulls up a chair.

                                    REED
                You all right?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Yeah. No. I ve never been shot at 
                  before.

                                    REED
                  There s people you can speak to, these 
                  days. If you want to.

                                    RIPLEY
                  What, like a counsellor?

                                    REED
                Why not?

                                    RIPLEY
                My dad knew I d seen a counsellor, 
                  he d shoot me himself.

Teller strides from her office on to the bullpen.

                                    TELLER
                All right everyone! Roll up, roll up.

They do. Everyone gathers.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Orders from on high. All personnel 
                  will be issued with bullet-proof vests 
                  where available. I know  where 
                  available  isn t what you want to 
                  hear, but there we go. Best we can do. 
                Any questions?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 19.


No. Just murmurs of unease.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Good. Now, this has been a bad day, 
                the worst day most of us have seen on 
                the job - and looking around, I m 
                  reminded that most of us are 
                  bedraggled old fossils with quite a 
                few bad days behind us. So what we do, 
                  ladies and gents, is sniff out this 
                  bastard. Then we show him and the rest 
                of the world that no-one gets to do 
                  this to us. So get out there and get 
                  him. 
                        (beat)
                  Let s have it, then!

Energised, they go to their jobs. Nobody notices the weariness 
at the corner of Teller s eyes. The fear, the loneliness.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 6 - 11.373232

Luther and Teller lost in their own meditations - as Ripley  
links up a VIDEO SCREEN. Hits play.

ANGLE ON SCREEN:

  A  YOUTUBE  VIDEO: Owen Lynch talks to camera. He s nervous, 
polite, weirdly personable. This is more like a TV charity 
appeal than an AL Quaidavideo.

                                    OWEN
                My name is Owen Lynch, ex 46 Commando 
                  Royal Marines.

He s replaced on screen by a photograph of TERRY LYNCH in 
  uniform. For a while, we hear Owen in voice over.

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                  This is my dad, Terry Lynch - also 46 
                  Commando, Royal Marines. He was at 
                  Bluff Cove when 46 Commando shot down 
                an Argentine jet - using rifles. After 
                  that, County Armagh. His final tour 
                was in Helmand Province. Last year, he 
                  went to prison for a crime that would 
                  never have been committed if his 
                  country had treated him with the 
                  respect he deserved. But that doesn t 
                  happen. More men who served in the 
                  Falklands have committed suicide since 
                  than died in the war itself. That may 
                  soon be true of men who served in Iraq 
                and Afghanistan.

More photographs of Terry as he talks.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 20.


                                    OWEN(cont d)
                My dad was defending himself from a 
                  belligerent arrest. He shouldn t be in 
                  prison for murder. Police officers 
                  will continue to die until justice is 
                  done. No negotiations will be entered 
                  into and there will be no further 
                  communications from me. Freedom for 
                  Terry Lynch. 

BACK TO TELLER S OFFICE

                                    LUTHER
                How many views so far?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Thirty thousand and counting. 

                                    TELLER
                All major news media outlets have 
                  picked up on it. It s out there, it s 
                not coming back.

Long beat. Luther studies Owen - frozen there on screen.

                                    LUTHER
                He barely mentions himself. That 
                  strike you as weird? He s back from 
                his war, his life s in shreds - but 
                  this declaration s entirely about his 
                  dad: what his dad achieved, where his 
                dad served -
                        (turns to Ripley)
                  I need to know if Owen visited Terry 
                  Lynch in prison. 

                                    RIPLEY
                        (already leaving)
                On it.

                                    TELLER
                How bad is this going to get?

                                    LUTHER
                  Pretty bad.

His phone rings. He checks it. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Excuse me. I need to take this.

EXT. SCU, ROOF - DAY 6 - 11.393333

He goes out onto the roof. 

                                    LUTHER
                  This really isn t the day.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 21.


INT. ALICE S PLACE, BALCONY - DAY 6 - 11.393434

Alice looks out onto London, drinking coffee.

                                    ALICE
                  Yes, I heard about the dead policemen. 
                Do you know where your killer is yet?

                                    LUTHER
                No. Do you?

                                    ALICE
                Why - do you think we belong to a 
                  club?

                                    LUTHER
                It wouldn t surprise me. 

                                    ALICE
                  I know how hard men like you take the 
                  death of fellow officers. It must be 
                  like losing family.

                                    LUTHER
                I m not discussing cases with you. 

                                    ALICE
                Not even interesting ones? 

                                    LUTHER
                  This isn t  interesting . This is good 
                  police officers doing a good job, 
                  gunned down in the street like -  

                                    ALICE
                  Like what?

He can t answer.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                  That s something we all do, isn t it - 
                in the end - judge who s worth more 
                  than whom. Hitleror Ghandi? The very 
                  young, the very old? 

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, to be fair - most of us don t do 
                it to the extent you do.

                                    ALICE
                But it does mean the difference 
                  between us is one of degree, not 
                  category. Ask Henry Madsen.

                                    LUTHER
                  Look - you win, all right? You re too 
                  clever for me.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 22.


                                    ALICE
                  Flattery to appease the malignant 
                  narcissist. That s a frivolous tactic. 
                Are you afraid of me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes.

                                    ALICE
                  Why?

                                    LUTHER
                You know why.

                                    ALICE
                Do you want me to leave you alone?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes. 

                                    ALICE
                  Then answer my questions.

                                    LUTHER
                  Why?

                                    ALICE
                To help with my investigation. I ve 
                got means, opportunity. You still 
                  haven t given me motive.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t have a motive. What I ve got 
                is a job.

                                    ALICE
                  It s a bit more than a job, though, 
                  isn t it.

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    ALICE
                  Lying won t help.

                                    LUTHER
                  I can t say what you want to hear.

                                    ALICE
                Do you think Zoe could clarify the 
                  situation for me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Last time you met Zoe, you shoved a 
                  knife in her ear. I think she d be 
                  disinclined to chat.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 23.


                                    ALICE
                It wasn t a knife. And I wasn t asking 
                  permission.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t respond to threats.

                                    ALICE
                  Good for you. I don t make them. I m 
                  just speculating. Does this woman even 
                  know you?

Beat of frustration and despair.

                                    LUTHER
                  Look, punish me if you want, Alice - 
                I m really not sure I can stop you. 
                But you don t get to use Zoe to 
                  blackmail me. 

He hangs up. His hands are shaking. He thinks. Dials. Leaves 
the roof. 

Alice sips coffee. Her smile slowly fading. Becoming something 
serene and mysterious.

INT. MARK'S PLACE, LIVING ROOM/SCUCORRIDOR(LUTHER) -DAY 6- 11.513535

Zoe and Mark are working - piles of paperwork, laptops, mobile 
phones. Mark digs his knuckles into his back, stands.

                                    MARK
                  Coffee. You want coffee? I want 
                  coffee.

                                  ZOE
                  Tea? 

                                    MARK
                  Builders?

Before she can answer, her phone rings. She checks it.

                                    MARK(cont d)
                        (reads her face)
                  John?

Their eyes meet. Mark shrugs, whatever, exits. Zoe answers. 

                                  ZOE
                  John?

  INTERCUT ZOE and LUTHER in SCUCORRIDOR.

                                    LUTHER
                You got a minute?

                                  ZOE
                Not to argue, I don t.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 24.


                                    LUTHER
                  It s not that. Listen, I ve got 
                  something I need to ask. I need you to 
                  leave London. Not for long. A few 
                  days. Go stay with your mum, Mark s 
                  parents, whatever.

                                  ZOE
                  What s wrong? Why?

                                    LUTHER
                  I ve - received a viable threat.

                                  ZOE
                  What kind of threat?

                                    LUTHER
                  From Alice Morgan. 

INT. MARK S PLACE, KITCHEN - DAY 6 - 11.523636

Mark is making coffee. Zoe enters - zombie-like, shocked.

                                  ZOE
                We need to go.

                                    MARK
                Go where?

                                  ZOE
                  Anywhere. Just away.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 6 - 11.533737

Luther goes back to SCU. Bumps into Ripley, coming out.

                                    RIPLEY
                  I got what you wanted.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 6 - 12.053838

Luther and Reed, looking at the screens. Ripleyoperating the 
  computer.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Okay - you re looking at Owen Lynch s 
                  most recent visit to his dad. This 
                  would be just over two weeks ago. No 
                  audio, of course.

ANGLE ON SCREEN

Terry Lynch waits, impassive and intimidating, as Owen enters. 
Sits.Terry spreads his hands wide, palms flat, on the desk. 

                                    LUTHER
                No handshake. No hug. No smile. 
                  Receives Owen like a superior officer.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 25.


                        (Terry sits back, crosses his 
                        arms)
                  That s ventral denial - powerful 
                  signal of disapproval - pure 
                  dominance. Owen s nervous - stroking 
                his throat, his face - pacifying 
                  gestures. Foot jiggling. Head bowed - 
                  Can t meet his dad s gaze. Whatever 
                  Terry s saying, Owen s finding it 
                  profoundly stressful.
                        (turnsto Ripley)
                  When did Terry Lynch lose his appeal?

                                    RIPLEY
                  A month ago.

                                    LUTHER
                So this meeting is what? Two weeks 
                  later. Dominant father. Submissive 
                  son. You see what this is? 
                        (beat)
                  This is Owen Lynch, receiving his 
                  orders.

ANGLE ON SCREEN: as Terry speaks, Owen shakes his head. Terry 
repeats what he s just said. 

And at last Owen nods. All right. All right.

Only now does Terry Lynch unfold his arms. Sit forward. Reach 
out. Touch his son s hand.

                                    REED
                  Crikey.

INT. MARK S PLACE, KITCHEN - DAY 6 - 12.223939

Zoe and Mark, mid-quarrel. Both of them exasperated, angry, 
trying hard not to be.

                                    MARK
                  Listen to yourself. Listen to what 
                  you re actually saying! The man s 
                  playing mind games. It s a control 
                  thing. He wants to control you. He 
                  always did. He still does!

                                  ZOE
                You don t know him, Mark. 

                                    MARK
                  It s pathetic, really. What next? He 
                  clubs you over the head and drags you 
                to the cave by the hair? Do you like
                  this stuff? All this controlling, 
                  macho bullshit?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 26.


                                  ZOE
                  I can t believe you re being such a 
                  child about this. 

                                    MARK
                  I can t believe you let this man turn 
                you into such an asshole.

                                  ZOE
                He received a threat.

                                    MARK
                  Says him. 

                                  ZOE
                  Come on - we re not interrogating your 
                  masculinity here - 

                                    MARK
                  Don t worry about that. I think I m 
                  secure enough to weather any 
                  comparison you d care to make with 
                  your ex-husband. 

                                  ZOE
                Of course you are. And you shouldn t 
                be questioning my motives. It s just; 
                  John knows this stuff. If he says we 
                  should leave, I honestly think we 
                  should take him seriously.

                                    MARK
                  Okay. Do you know what I think? 

                                  ZOE
                  What, this last half hour wasn t it?

                                    MARK
                  What I think - if there was a real 
                  threat to your safety, a genuine 
                  threat, there dalready be a security 
                  detail outside the door. The police 
                  look after their own. He s lying, Zo.
                  I don t know why. But he is.

                                  ZOE
                  That s really not fair.

                                    MARK
                  Okay, so - simple solution. Let s pick 
                up the phone, dial his boss, ask her 
                  about this threat. See what she says.  

He offers Zoe the phone - and his eyes soften at her obvious 
  reluctance. 

  Saddened, he puts the phone back in its cradle. Says nothing.

She crosses her arms, turns away. Mark leaves the room.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 27.


INT. DERELICT FLAT, LIVING AREA - DAY 6 - 13.114040

Owen eats beans from the tin, watches the news on the portable 
TV

ANGLE ON TV: 

                                    NEWS 24 REPORTER 
                  Police say Owen Lynch is armed and 
                  extremely dangerous. Members of the 
                  public who see him should not attempt 
                to apprehend him, but immediately dial 
                  999.

EXT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON - DAY 6 - 13.184141

Reed s car and Ripley scar park outside the vast, looming 
prison. Luther, Reed and Ripleyhead towards it.

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON, TERRY S CELL - DAY 6 - 13.264242

Terry Lynch is lying on his bunk. A hard man - not cocky,  
  assured. He listens to the rattle of keys in the lock. A PRISON 
OFFICER steps into the open door. 

                                    TERRY
                  Don t tell me. Visitor. 

He grins. Stands. 

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON, CORRIDORS - DAY 6 - 13.274343

TWO PRISON OFFICERS lead Terry down the long, echoing 
corridors, unlocking and locking doors as they go.

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON, TERRY S CELL - DAY 6 - 13.284444

Reed enters Terry s cell, snapping on LATEX GLOVES. Ripley
watches from the doorway -

As Reed searches the cell - examines lights and fittings - runs 
hands across the ceiling - slides fingertips underside of the 
window, round the frame - removes bedding, runs blanket and 
sheets through their hands - checks pillow and mattress - 
thumbs through magazines, clothes, a toothpaste tube, a bar of 
soap - a solid deodorant stick -

What s this?

He removes the deodorant stick from its base. Crumbles the 
  deodorant away to reveal - a PLASTIC BAGGIEcontaining a SIM
card.

He produces his phone, disassembles it. Removes and pockets his 
own SIMcard - replaces it with Terry s. Reassembles the phone - 
turns it on. 

ANGLE ON PHONE: there s only ONE NUMBER in the directory.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 28.


                                    REED
                  Gotcha. You brief John, I ll get this 
                  number traced.

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON, VISITOR S ROOM - DAY 6 - 13.294545

Luther waits at the desk as TWO PRISON WARDENS lead TERRY LYNCH
into the room.Luther glares at him as he sits. Asserting 
dominance. Holds the glare for a long, challenging beat - 

- and subverts it by leaning forward - friendly - open.

                                    LUTHER
                So two little girls are walking home 
                  from Sunday school. One little girl 
                  says -  Do you believe in the Devil?  
                The other little girl says,  Don t be 
                  silly, of course not. The Devil s like 
                  Santa. It s just your dad. 

Luther shoves a PHOTOGRAPH OF OWEN IN UNIFORM across the table.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                The thing about little boys, they 
                  worship their dad like God. The more 
                  invisible he is, the more arbitrary in 
                his punishments and rewards, the more 
                  they crave his approval. 

Terry slides the photo back - face down, like a playing card.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  I know how it must have been for Owen  
                  - my dad was a soldier. 

                                    TERRY
                He was, was he?

                                    LUTHER
                  First ArmouredDivision, Seventh 
                    ArmouredBrigade. So Germany, mostly. 
                  Canada, for a bit. Year in Cyprus. 

                                    TERRY
                  I bet he was a right hard bastard.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, it was tough for him. Here I am, 
                big boy, eager to please, trying to 
                  care about what he cared about - the 
                  army, sport. But no, nothing there. He 
                  wanted me to box. I wanted to write 
                  lyrics, read books, go out with girls. 
                In the end I gave up trying to make 
                him proud because I knew it was never 
                  going to happen -
                        (leans closer)
                  - but Owen hasn t given up, has he?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 29.


                  More than anything, Owen wants to make 
                his dad proud.

Terry sits back. Crosses his arms. Waits.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  I know you gave Owen a job to do. But 
                I m not sure you appreciate the 
                  implications. In crimes like this - 
                  half the offenders end it by turning 
                  their gun on themselves. The other 
                  half are shot by police. Owen s going 
                to die, Terry. Unless you help him.

                                    TERRY
                By doing what?

                                    LUTHER
                We know he ll be monitoring the TV for 
                  news of the investigation.

                                    TERRY
                  Makes sense, yeah.

                                    LUTHER
                So go on camera. Ask him to stop. 
                  Rescind the order.

                                    TERRY
                  I could do that.

                                    LUTHER
                  But?

                                    TERRY
                I d need a reduction in sentence.

                                    LUTHER
                  That s not going to happen. You killed 
                  a police officer.

                                    TERRY
                I m not asking for a pardon - just a  
                  reduction. I got life for murder. It 
                  should ve been five years, 
                  manslaughter with diminished. I ll 
                  take that - with time served. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Even if there was a precedent, there d
                be no time. 

                                    TERRY
                  Well, I don t know about that. Owen 
                can look after himself. He could be 
                out there for weeks before you catch 
                  him. Weeks and weeks.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 30.


                                    LUTHER
                  This is your child we re talking 
                  about. 

  Silence. 

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re killing him.

                                    TERRY
                Not if you give me what I want. 

                                    LUTHER
                You don t get what you want. We know 
                  where Owen is. 

                                    TERRY
                  I ve got faith in the boy. He s a good 
                  soldier. 

                                    LUTHER
                  He s outnumbered. He s completely 
                  alone.

                                    TERRY
                He knows when to hit hard and when to 
                lie low. Who knows what damage he can 
                do before you catch him? 

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t do this to him. 

                                    TERRY
                  Five years, including time served, and 
                  transfer to an open prison. You decide 
                you can do that for me - then come 
                  back and bring all the cameras you 
                  want.

Luther holds his gaze for a long, hate-filled moment. Then 
stands and exits.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 6 - 13.3545A45A

Reed enters, joins Teller. 

                                    REED
                We triangulated the signal. 

                                    TELLER
                  Static? Mobile?

                                    REED
                No movement. He s keeping his head 
                  down

                                    TELLER
                  Sensible boy.
                        (lifts phone)
                  This is Teller.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 31.


                  We ve got a possible location for Owen 
                  Lynch. We need to scramble Tactical 
                  Support. 
                      (to Reed)
                  Address?

SCENE 46 - 48 INCLUSIVE OMITTED

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON - CORRIDOR - DAY 6 - 13.444949

Luther strides down the corridor. Ripleyis waiting. They walk.  

                                    RIPLEY
                We found a SIMcard, one number listed 
                in the contacts. Belongs to a Pay-as- 
                  You-Go which we traced to 185 ELLWYN
                  MEWS. That s a vacant property, 
                  overlooked by a trading estate, 
                  commercial buildings. Makes a decent 
                  bolt hole.

                                    LUTHER
                  Owen Lynch won t let himself be 
                  arrested. He d rather die. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Yeah. Nobody seem to be having much of 
                  a problem with that. 

EXT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON - DAY 6 - 13.4549A49A

Luther and Ripleyare leaving the prison. Luther s phone rings. 
He checks. It s Zoe. He answers.

                                    LUTHER
                You left yet?

SCENE 50 - 51 INCLUSIVE OMITTED

INT. MARK S PLACE, KITCHEN - DAY 6 - 13.455252

Zoe on the phone.

                                  ZOE
                No. No, we re still here. 

  INTERCUT ZOE AND LUTHER.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t believe it. Why? 

                                  ZOE
                  John, it s illegal to threaten 
                  someone s life.
                So if Alice Morgan has threatened me, 
                why don t you arrest her?

He glances at Ripley- who s blithely affecting to be unaware 
of the kind of conversation Luther s having.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 32.


                                    LUTHER
                  Because I can t.

                                  ZOE
                Why not?

                                    LUTHER
                  It s complicated.

                                  ZOE
                It always is. What has this woman got 
                on you? What have you done?

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t have time for this. Please - 
                  just trust me. 

Mark enters the room and listens quietly.

                                  ZOE
                  Thing is, I m not sure I do. If I 
                  called Rose Teller, would she know 
                  about this?

                                    LUTHER
                  Have you called her?

                                  ZOE
                Not yet. Should I?

                                    LUTHER
                No, don t do that. Don t call her.

Long beat.

                                  ZOE
                  That tells me everything, doesn t it? 
                So what s really going on? What have 
                you done?

                                    LUTHER
                  I really don t have time. At least - 
                  Christ, lock your doors and windows. 
                  Anything happens, call me.

He hangs up. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Everything okay?

Luther doesn t answer. Just strides on. Frustrated beyond 
endurance. 

INT. MARK S PLACE, KITCHEN - DAY 6 - 13.465353

Zoe stands there, swearing softly. 

                                    MARK
                So - ?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 33.


                                  ZOE
                So you were right - he was lying. When 
                do I learn, eh? Twenty years, and when 
                do I learn?

Mark steps forward, embraces her. Strokes her hair.

                                    MARK
                I m sorry. I really am. I m sorry.

INT. SCU. BULLPEN- DAY 6 - 14.0053A53A

Teller and Reed, strapping on bullet-proof vests. 

                                    TELLER
                You worried about something?

                                    REED
                  Getting shot, mostly.

                                    TELLER
                  That s it, is it?

                                    REED
                  Yeah. Well, that and something else.

                                    TELLER
                Be a good boy. Use your words.

                                    REED
                  I ve been thinking. 

                                    TELLER
                  What?

                                    REED
                One number. On the SIMcard. One 
                  number. 

                                    TELLER
                One number. One son.

                                    REED
                  Yeah, I know. Still, it s niggling me.

                                    TELLER
                On a day like this, if all you ve 
                  got s a niggle - you re laughing, 
                  mate.

                                    REED
                But - you re in prison, you ve got 
                  nothing else to think about. You ve 
                got one number, one important number. 
                So you memorise it, don t you? You 
                  don t write it down. You memorise it.

Beat. She stops in the act of putting on the vest.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 34.


                                    TELLER
                  Ian, we ve got a Special Forces nutjob
                out there gunning down uniforms. And 
                  this phone is our sole lead. We don t 
                  ignore leads. So all we can do is go 
                in hard and noisy... and as ready as 
                  it s humanly possible to be. We let 
                  Tactical do their job, and when it s 
                  done we buy them a drink and tell them 
                  their biceps are sexy. Done?

Done. Vests on.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Good. So let s go.

INT. DERELICT HOUSE - DAY 6 - 14.0253B53B

Owen tests one mobile phone by calling it from another. 

In front of him is the table, TV on top, the detritus of his 
work station: ammo, gas cylinder etc.

EXT. DERELICT HOUSE - DAY 6 - 14.185454

POLICE VEHICLES parked at all angles.

A CO19 TACTICAL SUPPORT TEAM in full ASSAULT GEAR. Overhead, 
the MECHANICAL CLATTER of a helicopter.

  Ripley scar pulls up - Luther and Ripleyrun out - join Teller 
and Reed. All of them in stab-proof vests.

They watch as CO19 STORM THE HOUSE - take down the door with 
  battering rams - enter. Hear their progress on Teller s radio

                                    CO19 (on radio) 
                  Armed police! Lay down your weapons! 
                  Final warning! Lay down your weapons!

Tiny beat of SILENCE. 

From inside the house, A MOBILE PHONE RINGS.

                                    CO19(on radio) (cont d)
                Oh -

And the house GOES UP.

  Everyone ducks - takes cover - as THE BASS ROAR of the 
  explosion rolls over their heads - then they SLOWLY STAND - as 
BURNING DEBRIS rains down.

                                    TELLER
                      (on radio)
                Oh, God - Medics! Get me medics and 
                  bombs disposal, now!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 35.


Luther stands - ash and debris falling all around - his eyes 
fixed on the house - filled with sorrow.  

EXT. DERELICT ESTATE  - DAY 6 - 14.215555

  Establishing a VAST, DESERTED HOUSING ESTATE.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - DAY 6 - 14.225656

- which is where Owen has moved his base to. He s at the table, 
MOBILE PHONE in one hand - it s the remote trigger. The STOLEN 
POLICE RADIO on the table before him.

                                    TELLER (ON RADIO)
                  Clear the area! Medics! Medics!! Get 
                  those men out of there! Set the RVPon 
                the corner of the street! Put local 
                  hospitals on notice!

Owen smiles. Not without sadness. Puts down the phone. Turns on 
the TV. Fills the kettle from a plastic bottle.

SCENES 57 - 61 OMITTED

EXT. HOBB LANE - DAY 6 - 15.006262

Luther passes armed guards, enters the station.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 6 - 15.046363

Luther enters. Reed and Ripleyare huddled miserably and 
  silently. 

                                    LUTHER
                  CO19?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Three confirmed. Four injured.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, if there s one thing you ll pick 
                up in Iraq, it s how to make an 
                  improvised explosive device. Lynch?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Still searching. Helicopters, ground 
                  units, dogs, door to door. No sign. 

                                    REED
                But it was a remote-detonated bomb. He 
                had to be close, watching. That puts 
                him inside - what? Five hundred 
                  metres, line of sight? I don t get it, 
                how he just slips away like that.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s not your fault.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 36.


                                    REED
                He wanted us to find that SIMcard. I 
                bit down on it like a Mars Bar. Of 
                  course it s my fault.

Teller enters. Equally weary.

                                    TELLER
                  It s official. As of five minutes ago, 
                the Owen Lynch operation was passed up 
                to Anti-Terrorism. So it s out of our 
                  hands.

                                    LUTHER
                All they ll do is give Terry Lynch 
                  what he wants. More blood. More dead 
                  coppers. You can t let that happen.

                                    TELLER
                  Seeing as I left my magic wand at the 
                  repair shop I haven t got much sodding 
                  choice. Look, we don t have to like 
                  this - but we do have to accept it. 

Luther turns away, angry. He flicks through Owen Lynch s 
  MILITARY RECORDS, school photographs. Owen in uniform. Owen in 
combat gear - desert camo- webbing - helmet - goggles - rifle - 
  earpiece - microphone.

  Earpiece. Microphone.

  Earpiece - microphone.

  EARPIECE! He sees it. Owen wasn t watching. He was listening.

He shuts the file. Turns to exit. 

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Where you going?

                                    LUTHER
                I m done for the day.

He exits. The others watching.  

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 6 - 15.056464

He s not going home. He strides to the evidence room.

INT. SCU, EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY 6 - 15.106565

On a BARE TABLE before him, Luther has EPPLEYand GORMAN S 
  UNIFORMS and DUTY BELTS. Every individual item in an evidence 
bag. 

He picks up one DUTY BELT. Examines it. Examines one RADIO. 
Then a second.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 37.


They re DIFFERENT. Very similar models. But not exactly the 
same.

He stands there, comparing them - as if weighing them up. Takes 
his own POLICE RADIO from his belt. Compares it to the two in 
  evidence. 

Finally reaches a decision. Walks away.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN- DAY 6 - 15.1165A65A

Luther charges back in with the two radios.

                                    TELLER
                  What s this now?

                                    LUTHER
                  Gorman and Eppley sradios. 

And?

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                We use Airwave, right? It s digital, 
                  secure. Impossible for civilians to 
                  pick up a scanner and listen in. 

                                    REED
                  And?

                                    LUTHER
                  These phones are different. Owen did a 
                  swap.
                        (shesnatches them from his 
                        hands)
                You need to call anti-terrorism. Warn 
                  them he s listening to everything we 
                  say. 

Teller gives him back the radios, lifts the desk phone.

                                    TELLER
                I m doing that now. 
                        (pauses)
                But I need you to understand, 
                  Detective Chief Inspector, that alert 
                  them is all we cando. We can t act on 
                  this information, because this case is 
                no longer ours. Am I being transparent 
                  here? Tell me if I m being at all 
                  ambiguous. There is nothing we can do 
                  with this, except pass it on.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, there s nothing anybody can do, 
                is there? Because nobody knows where 
                  Owen Lynch is. And he ll just keep on 
                  killing until someone finds him and 
                  stops him.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 38.


                                    TELLER
                  They ll find him.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah? How?

A beat - a challenge -

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Whatever. I m done.

He heads to the exit. On route he stops for a moment. Thinks. 
  Decides. Then opens a nearby desk drawer, takes out AN ENVELOPE 
and peeks inside. He pockets the envelope and leaves.

EXT. HOBB LANE - DAY 6 - 15.116666

Luther passes armed guards, steps onto the street. Very alone. 

Gets into his car.

INT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON, VISITORS  ROOM - DAY 6 - 15.366767

Luther sits down once more with Terry Lynch. 

                                    LUTHER
                  You re not getting what you want, 
                  Terry. But you ve known that from the 
                  start, I think.

Terry shrugs.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re not a stupid man. You know 
                  you re never getting out of here. You 
                  just want to punish the people you 
                  blame for it. 

                                    TERRY
                  Think what you like.

                                    LUTHER
                  Always do, that s part of my problem. 
                So what s going to happen is this - 
                  Anti-Terrorism goes in big and noisy. 
                  Owen dies.

                                    TERRY
                  Then he dies happy, doing what he 
                  loves. That s more than most of us 
                  get.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s a damn sight more than you re 
                  going to get.

                                    TERRY
                  What are you going to do? Beat me up? 
                  Think I can t take a slap?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 39.


                                    LUTHER
                I m pretty sure you can take a slap.


                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Then smile while you re doing it, 
                  dickhead.You re on camera.

Luther nods at the CCTV camera high in the corner.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Camera s off. 

                                    TERRY
                  I think I ll send my boy for you. Your 
                  doorbell rings, you re walking to the 
                  shops - and there he is. Bang. Right 
                  through the skull. So go on. Hit me. 
                  Doesn t matter. You re dead.

                                    LUTHER
                You and me both.

                                    TERRY
                  What - you re going to kill me, are 
                  you?

                                    LUTHER
                  Tell the truth, I do fancy it. But 
                  murdering people leads to so much fuss 
                and bother afterwards. So here s what 
                  I thought about doing. I know a lot of 
                  people in this prison - screws, 
                  inmates - a lot of really bad people. 

He takes something from his pocket - a length of thin rope. 
Lays it on the table. It s a noose.

Long beat. Eye contact.

                                    LUTHER (cont d)
                  Seemed to me, the best way to end this 
                is to have you commit suicide in your 
                  cell tonight. I don t think anybody 
                  would be surprised. History of 
                  depression, PTSD, blah blah blah.  
                      (off Terry s expression)
                  I ve done a lot worse.

Terry s eyes.

                                    TERRY
                  You ve done nothing, mate. 

                                    LUTHER
                        (sits back)
                  See, I knew you d say that. Because 
                the thing about you, Terry - you re a 
                  hard bastard aren t you?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 40.


                  Being a hard bastard s all you ve got. 
                You can t give in to threats - because 
                  then you wouldn t be a hard bastard 
                any more. You d rather die than lose 
                the respect you ve earned in here. I 
                can see that. 

                                    TERRY
                So why are we here?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because I m going to strip that
                  dignity away. Make you the most 
                  reviled person in here.

                                    TERRY
                I d like to see you give it a go - 
                  give myself a little chuckle. It s 
                  little things like that break up the 
                  monotony of the day.

Luther grins - reaches into his pocket. Produces AN ENVELOPE. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Everyone in here knows we searched 
                  your cell. Easiest thing in the world 
                to let them know this is what we 
                  found.

Chucks the envelope to Terry. Who looks inside - then gives 
Luther a look of icy abhorrence.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  I haven t been able to look at them, 
                  myself. But they tell me none of these 
                  little boys is older than nine.

                                    TERRY
                  This giving you a thrill, is it? 

                                    LUTHER
                  Terry Lynch, hard man - that s one 
                  thing. Terry Lynch, nonce - well, 
                  that s something else altogether. I 
                  don t think you could endure that. 

                                    TERRY
                  Nobody dbelieve it.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah? You sure? You get your son to go 
                  round doing whatever you tell him - 
                  even kill coppers. What kind of thing 
                do you have to do to a boy, eh?To 
                  give you that kind of control over 
                  him? 

A long, insinuating beat. Luther s grin.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 41.


                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  What kind of thing did you have to do?

With an abrupt, violent gesture Terry sweeps all the photos 
into the corner. Then stands, kicking it away, showing his 
  absolute disgust. Turns to Luther with rage. 

                                    TERRY
                You really are a piece of shit, aren t 
                  you? You really are scum.

                                    LUTHER
                  I am. I really am. Now, this is a one 
                  time offer. So give me what I want. 

EXT. CRAVEN HILL PRISON - DAY 6 - 16.266868

Luther exits. Waiting for him is a BBCTV NEWS CREW - and 
  Corinne, the journalist.

The CAMERAMAN begins to wire Luther with a clip-on mic. 

                                    LUTHER
                  When will this go out?

                                    CORINNE
                  Lead story, main bulletin. Say, ten 
                  past ten. You re definitely sure about 
                  this, now?

                                    LUTHER
                Oh yeah.

                                    CORINNE
                  Then let s go.

She smiles, turns to the cameraman, who nods: ready.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - NIGHT 6 - 22.096969

Reed brings in two cups of tea. Teller is watching ROLLING NEWS 
  COVERAGE OF THE SHOOTINGS.The clock counts from 10:09 to 10:10 
P.M. 

                                    NEWS 24 REPORTER 
                And as night falls on a stunned 
                  capital and police, ambulance and fire 
                  crews respond to 999 calls in full 
                  body armour, Corinne Day has been 
                  talking to Detective Chief Inspector 
                  John Luther, Senior Investigating 
                  Officer of the so-called 999 
                  Shootings.  

Teller looks up sharply.

                                    TELLER
                  What did he just say?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 42.


INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - NIGHT 6 - 22.107070

Owen zips the assault rifle into the sportsbag.Follows it with 
a SNIPER S SCOPE. Extra rounds of ammunition. What looks like a 
pretty serious IED.

Opens the door. About to leave on another mission to kill -

- then HEARS LUTHER ON TV, TALKING ABOUT HIM. He turns, the 
open door in his hand. Watches. 

                                    CORINNE (ON TV)
                  Detective Chief Inspector Luther, what 
                do we know about Owen Lynch s 
                  motivations?

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - NIGHT 6 - 22.117171

Reed and Teller, dumbfounded.

                                    LUTHER (ON TV)
                  Well, Lynch clearly prides himself on 
                  being a soldier from a long line of 
                  soldiers. But we ve interviewed his 
                  commanding officers, his military 
                  doctors - psychiatrists -

                                    REED
                  Holy shit.

                                    TELLER
                Oh no. Oh no, oh no, oh no.
                        (flings open door)
                  SERGEANT RIPLEY!

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - NIGHT 6 - 22.117272

Owen is taken aback by what this man is saying. He sets down 
the sports bag. Closes the door. Tonight s mission has been 
postponed.

He stares at the portable TV with cold fury.

                                    LUTHER (ON TV)
                  - all of whom made it clear that, 
                  although Lynch has an impressive 
                  number of kills to his name, they were 
                  aware of certain - flaws in his 
                  character.Lynch was never really 
                  soldier material. He was a maladjusted 
                  child who grew up with too much TV, 
                too much Playstation. 

                                    OWEN
                  Liar. 

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - NIGHT 6 - 22.117373

Ripley, Teller and Reed - watching the broadcast.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 43.


                                    TELLER
                Is any of this even true?

                                    REED
                Not even slightly.

                                    LUTHER (on tv)
                We do know that, upon his return from 
                  Afghanistan, Owen developed severe 
                  sexual difficulties. 

Reed, Teller and Ripleygroan, wince, turn away - ouch - 

                                    RIPLEY
                  He s making himself into a target - 
                  drawing Lynch s fire from the police 
                  force in general.

                                    TELLER
                  This is suicide.

INT. DERELICT FLAT - NIGHT 6 - 22.127474

Owen watching with fury in his eyes.

                                    LUTHER (ON TV)
                  Despite claims he made about a so 
                  called  mission , it s likely these 
                  murders in fact represent a sexual 
                  release - a way to deal with feelings 
                of personal and sexual impotence -

INT. MARK S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 6 - 22.127575

Zoe and Mark are reading, drinking wine. TV is muted in the 
  background. Zoe looks up.And there s Luther. She turns it up.

                                    CORINNE (ON TV)
                  - and what leads you to these 
                  conclusions?

                                    LUTHER (ON TV)
                  Partly experience with killers of this 
                  nature, who do tend to be profoundly 
                  inadequate. And partly because Lynch s 
                  father wasn t the hero he d have you 
                  believe. He s an alcoholic, a wife 
                  beater. 
                        (steps back to reveal the 
                        prison in background)
                Who incidentally denies all knowledge 
                of his son s activities. 

                                  ZOE
                Oh God, what s he doing?

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - NIGHT 6 - 22.137676

Tears of rage in Owen s eyes.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 44.


                                    CORINNE (ON TV)
                How close are you to catching him? 

                                    LUTHER (ON TV)
                  Well, I ve just had a long 
                  conversation with his father, who 
                  provided a great deal of vital 
                  information. 
                        (direct to camera)
                So I ll be seeing you soon, Owen. 

The broadcast ends on LUTHER S EYES, staring from the screen. 
  Directly at Owen Lynch.

Owen stares back. Then goes to the sports bag. Unzips it. 

Removes the assault rifle. Checks the sighting mechanism.

Gets ready.

SCENE 77 OMITTED7777

INT. MARK'S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 6 - 22.147878

Zoe and Mark - looking at the TV. Both of them aghast. 

Mark s about to say something when Zoe shushes him -

She s heard A NOISE. Just a small noise. A muted POP.She 
frowns, stands, slowly. Puts down her book. 

                                    MARK
                Wh-

                                  ZOE
                  Shhhh

He stands too. Laying down his book. Follows her from the room

INT. MARK'S PLACE, HALLWAY - NIGHT 6 - 22.147979

They edge down the hallway. Zoe hesitates - at ANOTHER SMALL 
noise. A cupboard being softly opened. Shut again. Gentle chink 
of glass. 

Zoe moves forward -

INT. MARK'S PLACE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 6 - 22.148080

  - enters the kitchen. To see ALICE MORGAN sitting at their 
table. A bottle of wine and three glasses before her.

                                  ZOE
                And you are?

                                    ALICE
                  A friend of John s. We ve met, 
                  actually.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 45.


                                    MARK
                All right. I don t care who you are. 
                  Leave, please. Right now.

                                    ALICE
                Or -?

Mark picks up the phone. 

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                Go ahead. But it won t be good for 
                  John.

                                    MARK
                  Well, bollocksto John. 

But Zoe places a hand on his forearm  - a long beat - and Mark 
lowers the phone. 

Zoe faces Alice. Cool challenge in her eyes.

                                  ZOE
                So. How can we help you?

                                    ALICE
                  I ve been wondering - why do you think 
                he does it? 

                                  ZOE
                Why does who do what?

                                    ALICE
                  John. His job. It takes such a toll. 
                Why does he put himself through it?

                                  ZOE
                  I don t see how this is relevant.

                                    ALICE
                  Well, it is. Right this second, you 
                  might actually be helping him. What do 
                you think compellshim to do it?

                                  ZOE
                  Duty.

                                    ALICE
                To what?

                                  ZOE
                The dead. Mock all you like.

                                    ALICE
                I m not mocking.

                                  ZOE
                He believes - one life is all we have. 
                  Life and love. Whoever takes life 
                  steals everything.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 46.


                                    ALICE
                And do you agree? 

                                  ZOE
                  I don t know. I think, if he d read a 
                  different book by a different writer 
                at just the right time in his life, 
                  he d have been a different man. He d 
                  have been happier as a priest than -

                                    ALICE
                  Than what? 

                                  ZOE
                  Than what he is.

                                    ALICE
                It must have been difficult for you. 
                  Impossible, really. How does anyone 
                  compete with a calling like that?

                                  ZOE
                He wasn t blind. He knew what it was 
                  costing him.

                                    ALICE
                  Like his marriage?

                                  ZOE
                  That s part of it, yeah.

                                    ALICE
                But you don t sound bitter.

                                  ZOE
                I m not bitter. I m proud of him.

                                    ALICE
                You just don t want to be married to 
                  him.

                                  ZOE
                Not any more. No.

                                    ALICE
                Why not?

                                  ZOE
                I m not going to answer that.

                                    ALICE
                Is it because he tried to kill Henry 
                  Madsen?

                                  ZOE
                No. 

                                    ALICE
                But that is what you think?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 47.


                                  ZOE
                Do you know what Henry Madsendid? 

                                    ALICE
                  I have some idea, yes.

                                  ZOE
                He was a freak of nature. Anyone would 
                be tempted to - 

                                    ALICE
                  - but we re not talking about anyone, 
                  we re talking about John. Do you think 
                  John tried to kill him - on behalf of 
                the dead?

A long, long beat. Zoe refuses to break eye contact - and 
refuses to answer -

- While Mark looks on with quiet astonishment. 

                                    ALICE (cont d)
                  Well, I think that answers the 
                  question. 

She gives Zoe a dazzling smile. Open and radiant and lovely. 

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                It was nice to meet you properly. 
                  Thank you for your time.

She exits through the back door, the way she came in.

Zoe bolts and double-locks the door. Her hand is shaking. It 
takes three attempts. 

Then she turns to face Mark. Embraces him. Mark is still in 
shock. But he embraces her in return.

  INT/EXT. LUTHER S CAR, STREETS (TRAVELLING) - NIGHT 6 - 22.1680A80A

Luther speeds through London - focused on the task ahead.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - NIGHT 6 - 22.228181

Reed and Ripley exit Teller s office, stride through the unit.

                                    REED
                He seriously told you nothing?

                                    RIPLEY
                He seriously told me nothing.

                                    REED
                  Seriously?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Seriously.

                                    REED
                  Shit.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 48.


Ripley stops. Looks round himself, as if for some lost piece of 
  potentially useful equipment - or a door to leave through.

But he s interrupted by a A SLIGHTLY CONFUSED OFFICER who hands 
him a POLICE RADIO. Ripley frowns. Why are you giving me this?
Then hears:

                                    LUTHER (ON RADIO)
                  Detective Chief Inspector John Luther 
                to Control, over.   

Reed sprints to Teller s office.

                                    REED
                  Boss!

Teller rushes in. Listens, incredulous, to the police radio.

                                    LUTHER (ON RADIO)
                  Detective Chief Inspector John Luther 
                to Control, over.  

Teller snatches the radio from Ripley s hand.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT, LIVING ROOM- NIGHT 6 - 22.228282

Owen hears a NEWLY FAMILIAR VOICE on the STOLEN POLICE RADIO.

                                    LUTHER (ON RADIO)
                  Detective Chief Inspector John Luther 
                to Control, over. 

He snatches up the radio. Listens. 

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT 6 - 22.238383

Luther walks alone through a run-down estate. 

                                    TELLER (ON RADIO)
                  D.C.I.Luther, this is Control. What s 
                  your status, over?

                                    LUTHER
                      (on radio)
                I m en routeto the Kings Hill Estate, 
                  over.

                                    TELLER (ON RADIO) 
                  Please clarify, over.

                                    LUTHER
                  There s a flat there, belonged to one 
                of Terry Lynch s old oppos. Owen used 
                to go there when he was a kid, listen 
                to them drink and tell war stories. 
                I m betting he paid it a visit - maybe 
                  left something we can use to find him, 
                  over.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 49.


                                    TELLER (ON RADIO)
                  Hold back on that. Do not proceed 
                  unassisted to the Kings Hill Estate. 

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 6 - 22.238484

Owen is listening.

                                    TELLER
                        (on radio, to Luther)
                  This is now a matter for 
                  antiterrorism. Do NOT proceed, repeat 
                do not proceed to the Kings Hill 
                  Estate. 

                                    LUTHER (ON RADIO)
                  Negative on that. I m three, repeat 
                  three minutes away, over. 

                                    OWEN
                  Right.

Face twisted with hate, he checks the breach on the assault 
rifle.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - NIGHT 6 - 22.238585

Teller, Ripley and Reed - 

                                    TELLER
                We cannot provide armed backup, over. 
                We are unable to provide backup. Do 
                you read?

Silence on the line. She TURNS TO REED.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                        (low)
                Get CO19 out there.

Reed snatches up a phone.

                                    REED
                  This is DCIReed, we need a fast 
                  response Tactical Unit to the Kings 
                  Hill Estate... it s Owen Lynch... 
                  WE VE GOT AN UNARMED, UNASSISTED 
                  OFFICER GOING IN THERE. SO DO IT NOW!

As Reed SHOUTS, Teller turns to Ripley.

                                    TELLER
                He wanted to guarantee that Owen Lynch 
                  heard him when he made that call. He 
                  brought me Gorman and Eppley sradios 
                so I d warn Anti-Terrorism and they d 
                  shut down their comms. We cleared the 
                  airwaves for him!         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 50.


                                    RIPLEY
                  I realisethat now, Ma am, yes.

  INTERCUT with Luther walking into - the profound, sombre 
shadows of that VAST, DESERTED HIGH RISE HOUSING ESTATE. 

                                    TELLER
                  He s made Lynch hate him -

                                    RIPLEY
                  - it s like he s waving a white flag, 
                  before stepping onto enemy territory.  
                  Almost as if he s gone there to -

                                    TELLER
                  What?!

                                    REED
                  Boss?

                                    TELLER
                  What?

                                    REED
                  I found him on the roof this morning. 
                  Right on the edge.

                                    TELLER
                So?

                                    REED
                I m not completely sure he expects to 
                  walk away from this.

                                    TELLER
                  CO19?

                                    REED
                ETA thirteen minutes.

                                    TELLER
                  That s not quick enough. He s dead. 
                The bloody idiot. He s dead.

EXT. DESERTED HOUSING ESTATE - NIGHT 6 - 22.248686

Luther turns off the radio. Hangs it on his belt. Walks on -

Into the profound, sombre shadows of that VAST, DESERTED HIGH 
RISE HOUSING ESTATE. 

Pauses at the edge of the last sodium light. He is very scared. 

The ECHO OF HIS FOOTSTEPSfollow him to TOWER BLOCK B. It rears 
over him. Mute, brooding, malevolent.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 51.


8787EXT. DESERTED HOUSING ESTATE, TOWER BLOCK, STAIRWELL - NIGHT 6 - 
22.24

Slowly, his back pressed to the filthy wall, Luther makes his 
way up the stained concrete stairwell. 

Utter silence, but for the scrape of his footfalls, his anxious 
breathing. 

Sounds of LONDON CHAOS are distant, muted. Here, the night 
breeze whistles through desolate concrete passages, deserted 
  walkways, broken windows, barricaded doors.

Luther arrives at the FIRST FLOOR WALKWAY. Waits. Pressed flat 
to the wall. Looking into the DARKNESS. The wind blowing low 
and cold. 

He edges up the stairs. Stops. Holds his breath. 

  COMPLETE SILENCE. 

He strains to listen - pressed flat to the wall. Did he hear 
something? Some TINY MOVEMENTbelow?

No. He moves on up - 

EXT. DESERTED HOUSING ESTATE, FOURTH LANDING - NIGHT 6 - 22.258888

  - reaches the fourth landing. Stops. Listens.He s sweating - 
trying to control his terrified breathing.

  A padlocked steel grilled door blocks the passageway. Luther 
picks the lock and goes through.

Edges down the long, vacant passageway - past kicked-in doors, 
  discarded needles. 

He finds the door he wants - FLAT 154 - his hand goes to it - 
pushes -

- the door swings openwith a LONG CREAK-

Luther peers into darkness. It seems to wait for him.

Then he hears something. 

He turns. 

And there s Owen. Not in the flat. At the far edge of the 
  passageway, near the stairs. Assault rifle raised -

                                    OWEN
                  Luther, is it?

                                    LUTHER
                  John. Yeah.

                                    OWEN
                Why are you here, John?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 52.


                                    LUTHER
                  Because I want you to stop.

                                    OWEN
                You ex-services? Look it.

                                    LUTHER
                  A lot of coppers are - Mike Eppley, 
                the man you killed the other night. He 
                  was. But not me. I was just - I was 
                  around it a long time. 

                                    OWEN
                  Lace your hands on top your head, 
                  John.

Luther laces his hands on top of his head. Owen moves closer - 
the assault rifle aimed between Luther s eyes - 

He stops a few feet away. No way for Luther to move.

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                You got a death wish?

Long beat.

                                    LUTHER
                No. 

  Suddenly Owen STEPS FORWARD - clubs Luther with the gun - kicks 
him - kicks him again -

  - leaves him helpless and gasping on the ground -

                                    OWEN
                  THEN WHAT?! WHATARE YOU DOING?

He grabs Luther s collar, throws him through the door into the 
flat.

INT. DERELICT COUNCIL FLAT - NIGHT 6 - 22.278989

Luther scuttles to the corner - bleeding and scared - 

Owen slings the rifle over his shoulder. Advances with the 
  revolver.

                                    LUTHER
                  Terry gave you up, Owen.

                                    OWEN
                  Shut up.

                                    LUTHER
                  I threatened him and he cried like a 
                  girl. He sobbed and begged me not to 
                  hurt him. And he gave you up. Just 
                  like that. He gave you up.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 53.


                                    OWEN
                  Liar.

                                    LUTHER
                No, you re right. I m a liar. He 
                  didn t cry, he didn t sob. I was 
                  saying that to make you feel better. 
                He just gave you up because he was 
                  frightened.

A hurt beat - as that strikes home. Followed by angry resolve.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  Come on. How d youthink I found you? 
                  This was a special place. Yours and 
                  his. Who else would know you were 
                  here?

                                    OWEN
                  Liar.

                                    LUTHER
                You didn t want to be a soldier. You 
                wet your bed until you were eleven. He 
                  used to hit you for it. The more he 
                hit you, the more you wet your bed. 
                You were scared of the dark. Scared of 
                the monster under your bed. Scared of 
                  Terry.

                                    OWEN
                  SHUT UP! 

Owen advances, bearing down with the gun - 

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                GET DOWN! DOWN! ON YOUR FACE! DOWN!

Grabs Luther by the collar.

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                On your knees.

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    OWEN
                ON YOUR KNEES! ON YOUR KNEES! GET ON 
                  YOUR KNEES!

Owen shoves Luther to his knees - puts the gun to the base of 
his skull. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I told him he was killing you. Know 
                  what he said? 

                                    OWEN
                  Shut it.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 54.


                                    LUTHER
                 At least he ll die doing something he 
                  loves . 

Beat.

                                    LUTHER (cont d)
                You recognise that? Heard him say it 
                  before?

Owen bellows with rage, drags Luther to his feet, slams him 
into the wall. Presses the barrel of the revolver to his head. 

Glares unblinking into Luther s eyes.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re an embarrassment to him.

                                    OWEN
                  SHUT UP!
                        (strikeshim)
                  SHUT! UP!!

                                    LUTHER
                  He s ashamed of you. He asked you to 
                do one thing - ONE THING! And you 
                  couldn t do that right - 

                                    OWEN
                  SHUT UP!!

                                    LUTHER
                He surrendered all your secrets. 
                  Anything he thought I could use to 
                  humiliate you. Like the fact that when 
                you came home, you started wetting the 
                bed again. He laughed when he told me 
                  that. 

Owen LAUGHS TOO - IN PAIN - digs the gun into Luther s head.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  That s why I m here. To tell you what 
                  kind of man he is. Don t die for him, 
                  Owen. Not for him. 

                                    OWEN
                  SHUT UP! 

Owen stands there. Lost. Hand shaking.

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                  God, what do I do?

                                    LUTHER
                  Come with me.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 55.


                                    OWEN
                My dad killed one copper. Look what 
                  they did to him.

                                    LUTHER
                  You re not your dad.

                                    OWEN
                No, I m not.

He grins - savage - mad. Flips opens the cylinder - removes 
five bullets - leaving one - 

                                    OWEN(cont d)
                  Ever get the feeling you ve been 
                  cheated?

- he shuts the cylinder - spins it - DIGS THE BARREL INTO 
  LUTHER S HEAD- 

ANGLE on the GUN MECHANISM as OWEN PULLS THE TRIGGER: THE 
HAMMER PULLS BACK - SPRINGS FORWARD - STRIKES THE CYLINDER.

Click. 

Luther laughs. Half disappointed. 

Owen PUNCHES him. Laughs, fierce and mad. Then - abruptly - 

- puts the gun to his OWN HEAD and pulls the trigger. 

Click.

He laughs again, half disappointed - shoves Luther hard into 
the wall - puts the pistol to Luther s head. 

Pulls the trigger - Click- 

- then turns the gun on himself, pulls the trigger. 

Click.

                                    LUTHER
                  Four down. Two to go. Come on, Owen. 
                  Hurry up. Come on.

Owen puts the gun to Luther s head - more slowly now - long eye 
contact between them. 

Owen s FINGER SQUEEZES THE TRIGGER - THE HAMMER PULLS BACK - 
STRIKES THE CYLINDER - 

  Luther s eyes close -

Click.

Last bullet.

Owen puts the pistol to his own head, squeezes the trigger -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 56.


Luther CRIES OUT - produces his POLICE BATON - strikes at 
Owen s wrist - misses -

Owen steps back -turns the gun on Luther - point blank -

Luther steps into him - HEADBUTTShim - then steps back, 
  bringing up the baton in a WIDE CURVE, SMASHING it into OWEN S 
JAW. 

Owen spins - Luther strikes him hard on the BACK OF THE NECK.

Owen falls. Luther strikes him ONCE MORE- kicks the gun away -
pins Owen to the floor with one foot.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  DON T MOVE!

With one hand, he produces some PLASTIC HANDCUFFS. Cuffs Owen.

                                    LUTHER(cont d)
                  You re okay. You re okay. You re okay. 

                                                                              FADE TO:

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 6 - 11.489090

Teller and Reed are with Owen Lynch and his SOLICITOR. Owen is 
dressed in the blue police issue coverall. Hair slicked back 
post shower.

                                    REED
                All right, Owen. I know you re scared. 
                  I know that right now, you feel you re 
                in enemy territory. But that s not how 
                it is. You re protected by the law. 
                  Nobody s going to hurt you. You need 
                to understand that we re not your 
                  enemy.

  Silence. Owen flexes his jaw. Stares directly ahead. Teller and 
Reed exchange a glance.

                                    TELLER
                We know that you re not responsible 
                for what you did. Not really. I d like 
                to acknowledge that, here...on the 
                  record. In the light of this, we re 
                  prepared to make certain 
                  recommendations when it comes to trial 
                and sentencing. If you re prepared to 
                  help us.

Beat.

                                    TELLER(cont d)
                  Owen, as far as we re concerned, the 
                  ultimate responsibility for the death 
                of these officers lies with your dad. 
                And it s your dad we want.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 57.


                But we need your help to do that. If 
                  we re going to punish this man for 
                  what he did to you, we need your help.

Angle on Owen s extreme internal conflict - his desire to 
assist, his fear... 

An agonising beat as Teller and Reed wait. Trying not to show 
their tension. But they almost jump when Owen opens his mouth - 

                                    OWEN
                My name is Owen Lynch. Sergeant, Royal 
                  Marines. 2523301.

                                    TELLER
                  Owen, we re trying to help you here. 
                Let us help you.

                                    OWEN
                My name is Owen Lynch. Sergeant, Royal 
                  Marines. 2523301.

                                    TELLER
                  Owen-

                                    OWEN
                My name is Owen Lynch. Sergeant, Royal 
                  Marines. 2523301.

Out on Teller, crestfallen.

EXT. CITY OF LONDON PATHWAY - DAY 7 - 14.329191

Luther waits. His face is bruised and dressed.Alice Morgan 
joins him. Stands at his shoulder.

                                    ALICE
                So - what do you have to say that 
                  can t be said over the phone?

He doesn t turn to her. Just leans on his stick. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That if you don t stay away from Zoe - 
                  I ll kill you, Alice.

                                    ALICE
                And you d do that, would you? 

                                    LUTHER
                If it was the only way to stop you.

                                    ALICE
                Was it the only way to stop Henry 
                  Madsen?

                                    LUTHER
                You need to let it be. You really do.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 58.


                                    ALICE
                  Don t worry - I ve concluded my 
                  investigation. I think I got the right 
                  man. 

Beat.

                                    ALICE(cont d)
                  I like her, by the way. Zoe.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know what that means - not 
                  coming from your mouth.

                                    ALICE
                  She s strong. She has dignity. She 
                  loves you a great deal.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, well. Funny way of showing it.

                                    ALICE
                She knows what you did.

He turns to her, shocked.

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you mean? 

                                    ALICE
                  She s always known. It didn t change 
                  anything. It s not why she left. 

He looks at her with something like awe. Close to tears - 
wanting to believe, needing to believe, what she s saying. And 
because of that, he s afraid to.

                                    LUTHER
                She didn t tell me. She never -

                                    ALICE
                You made her watch what it did to you, 
                and never told her why. I think that s 
                why she left, in the end. She couldn t 
                  look at it any more - what you do to 
                  yourself. She felt she d lost you to 
                the dead.

Luther can only stand there, blinking.

                                    LUTHER
                Why are you doing this? I m lost. I 
                  don t understand.

                                    ALICE
                  Because we re friends. I wanted you to 
                  feel better.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 2Page 59.


                                    LUTHER
                  We re not friends. I don t know what 
                we are, but we re not friends.

                                    ALICE
                  Whatever else may have happened is in 
                the past. 

                                    LUTHER
                The past isn t dead. It s not even 
                  past.

                                    ALICE
                Are you still frightened of me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes.

                                    ALICE
                  I ve no wish to hurt you. And I 
                  certainly have no wish to hurt Zoe. 
                  She s - admirable.

                                    LUTHER
                  You ll - stay away from her? I need 
                you to stay away from her.

                                    ALICE
                  Absolutely. Brownie s honour.

He questions her with a fierce, frightened eye.

                                    LUTHER
                One coffee. That doesn t make us 
                  friends.

A beat. They turn. Walk away. 

  Together.



                                                                      END OF EPISODE