EXT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE - NIGHT 1 - 00.0011

A DECAYED, POST-INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE. Wasteland. 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, MAIN AREA - NIGHT 1 - 00.0122

HENRY MADSEN - a handsome man in suit and tie - stands alone in 
this VAST FORSAKEN SPACE. Breathing exerted, afraid. Thinking 
hard. Scanning the DARK CORNERS for what predators may lurk 
there - 

He SPINS, looks behind him. Sees NOTHING. Just darkness and 
  silence. Sound of DRIPPING WATER. His harsh breathing. And a 
sense of TERRIBLE THREAT in the LOOMING SHADOWS. 

And now -

  A FOOTSTEP. Somewhere out there - in the shadows. 

He takes a SINGLE RETREATING STEP. And another. And a third -
faster now, moving backwards - as the ECHOING FOOTSTEPS in the 
  vastness of this terrible place grow CLOSER and CLOSER.

And now he s running - headlong through this awful place - away 
- just away - 

EXT. MADSEN HOUSE - NIGHT 1 - 00.0233

  A MASSIVE POLICE OPERATIONoutside an ORDINARY SUBURBAN HOUSE. 

  A UNIFORMED OFFICER emerges, mud covered. Approaches DETECTIVE 
  SUPERINTENDANT ROSE TELLER - who s looking at a PHOTOGRAPH OF A 
YOUNG GIRL.

                                    TELLER
                  Nothing?

The UNIFORMED OFFICER shakes his head.

Teller exchanges a pained, anxious look with DETECTIVE 
  INSPECTOR IAN REED. Who shrugs.

                                    REED
                  John said she s here, so she s here. 
                  Keep trying.

  UNIFORMED OFFICER nods, exits.

                                    TELLER
                Her oxygen ran out two minutes ago.

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, VAT ROOM - NIGHT 1  - 00.0344

Madsen has no choice but to scramble up a RUSTY LADDER - which 
gives on to the VAT ROOM -

Only one way out. A STEEL DOOR ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE 
  CHAMBER.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 2.


To reach it, he must cross an ANCIENT METAL WALKWAY.

- Which spans a CIRCULAR BLACK CHASM -

WHICH DIVES TO INFINITY. 

A BLACK HOLE. 

He turns from its evil maw. No way. He can t. 

He can t do that.

  Breathing heavily, casting round, looking for a way out - he 
HEARS NOISES IN THE SILENCE. 

Coming closer. Ever closer. 

The ECHOES OF IMPENDING NEMESIS. A long, UNBEARABLE MOMENT 

Until -



Below, a SHABBY FIGURE appears. Implacable. Eyes that burn with 
lunacy and murder. 

Incredible as it seems - this is DETECTIVE CHIEF INSPECTOR JOHN 
LUTHER. 

He reaches the foot of the ladder. He advances on Madsen.

Who sprints across THE WALKWAY -

He s halfway across when SOMETHING FALLS - minor part of the 
  superstructure - a sheared bolt, maybe. It plunges, 
  reverberating, into darkness.

Madsen ignores it. Reaches the DOOR on the other side. It s 
metal. Riveted. Solid.

LOCKED.

He casts around. Finds an IRON BAR. Levers at the door. 
  Frantic, desperate.

But it s not opening. No way.

He turns. Sees Luther. At the top of the ladder now.

Advancing.

Pausing at the edge of the walkway.

  A moment of eye contact.

Madsen gives up on the door. It s not going to open.

He s TRAPPED.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 3.


So he lifts the iron bar as a weapon - 

And he and Luther advance on each other - crossing the walkway.

It JOLTS under their weight.

Madsen ready to kill.

Luther grinning. The light of madness in his eyes. Less a man 
than a force of nature.

  Vengeance personified.

SCENE 5 OMITTED55

EXT. MADSEN HOUSE - NIGHT 1 - 00.0566

Teller glares at her watch. Five minutes past midnight.

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.0677

Madsen and Luther advance on each other - converging on the 
MOMENT OF VIOLENT CONNECTION -

When Madsen stops. Suddenly.

  A moment of EYE CONTACT -

Then the WALKWAY GIVES WAY BENEATH HIS FEET - Madsen FALLS- 
drops the crowbar - it tumbles into darkness -

- he CATCHES HIMSELF- just in time - 

- and hangs there - scrabbling, trying to climb -  

Can t. It s too wet. Too slick.

Luther approaches. Edges as close as he can. Takes a moment of 
PURE MALEVOLENT PLEASUREin Madsen s desperation.  

                                    LUTHER
                  You re going to fall. 

                                    MADSEN
                Oh, God - 

Madsen tries to scrabble up. Can t. 

The walkway protests beneath him. A metallic groan. It jolts - 
gives way a few more centimetres.Madsen is jarred - but hangs 
on. Just. Over a chasm of darkness.

Luther watches with a kind of glee - a kind of madness.

                                    LUTHER
                  Where is she?

Madsen begins to SLIP- regains his hold - for the moment. His 
feet scramble, seeking a toehold.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 4.


                                    MADSEN
                      (in agony)
                The living room! For God s sake, the 
                  living room! There s a - panel - 
                  behind the plasterboard -

Luther produces his phone.

                                    LUTHER
                Be exact.

EXT. MADSEN HOUSE - NIGHT 1 - 00.0888

Reed s phone rings. ANGLE ON THE PHONE: JOHN LUTHER.

                                    REED
                  John?
                        (listens.Runs)
                  LIVING ROOM! 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.0899

Luther waits. 

                                    MADSEN
                  HEY! HEY!

                                    LUTHER
                  Thing is - what if you re lying? 

                                    MADSEN
                I m not! I m not lying! Please!

INT. MADSEN HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 1 - 00.091010

Reed enters - he s got a CROW BAR. He s followed by Teller. 
Then several UNIFORMED OFFICERS, carrying SLEDGE HAMMERS. 

Reed hammers and rips at the plasterboard wall, tears down 
section after section - throws away the crowbar - uses his 
hands - 

Teller and a uniformed officer join in. Frantic. 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.091111

Madsen struggles like a fly on a pin -  

INT. MADSEN HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 1 - 00.101212

Behind the plasterboard, behind a layer of soundproofing, Reed 
and Teller find an UPRIGHT, COFFIN-SIZED CONTAINER WRAPPED IN 
  LAGGING. It has an OXYGEN CYLINDERattached. It s marked with a 
faded KTR MEDICO logo. The gauge reads: EMPTY. 

Reed picks up his phone, still connected          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 5.


                                    REED
                      (on phone)
                  It s here! 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.101313

                                    LUTHER
                      (on phone, looking into 
                          Madsen s eye)
                She alive?

INT. MADSEN HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 1 - 00.101414

  OFFICERS rush to open the coffin. Inside is MIA DALTON

Dead?

                                    REED
                  I can t tell.  

Teller hauls Mia from the coffin, lays her out. Listens to her 
chest. Shit.Turns the girl s head, clears the vomit from her 
airway. Tilts back her head. Pinches her nose. Covers Mia s 
mouth with hers, gently forces air into her lungs. 

Mia s chest rises. 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.111515

                                    MADSEN
                  I can t - I can t - oh God - please!

Luther looks down on him. Frowns.

Grabs the handrail. Edges forward. The walkway groans beneath 
him. The weird shriek and pop of support wires giving way. 

Luther GRABS THE FRONT OF MADSEN S SHIRT.Holds him in place. 

Madsen screams in terror -

INT. MADSEN HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 1 - 00.111616

Teller administers CPR. 

Reed keeps the phone to his ear. He can hear DISTANT SCREAMING.

                                    MADSEN (V.O.)
                  PLEASE! NO!

  A moment of discomfort. Then Reed LOWERS THE PHONE. And we -

  INTERCUT TWO LIVES IN THE BALANCE - Mia and Madsen.

Until Mia takes in a MASSIVE WHOOP OF AIR - SITS UP - LOOKS 
AROUND - WIDE EYED AND TERROR-STRICKEN.

Teller cries out - embraces the child.            LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 6.


                                    TELLER
                Oh, good girl. Good girl. Good girl.

                                    REED
                      (on phone)
                  We ve got her! 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.111717

Luther stares down at Madsen. 

                                    LUTHER
                      (on phone)
                  Good. 

He hangs up. In the background, SIRENS APPROACH. 

Luther glances in their direction. Then back at Madsen.

INT. MADSEN HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 1 - 00.121818

Reed thinks a moment, troubled. Seems about to speak. Then 
changes his mind. Hangs up the phone. 

INT. KTR MEDICO WAREHOUSE, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - NIGHT 1 - 00.121919

Luther deliberates. Staring at Madsen, hanging there.

                                    MADSEN
                Oh God, please. 

An unbearably long beat.

                                    LUTHER
                No.

Luther LETS GO OF MADSEN S SHIRT. Madsen CRIES OUT- clings 
there for a moment - 

- then his hand SLIPS - slides - a MAD FLURRY as he scrabbles 
for purchase - a FROZEN BEAT -

- and Madsen TUMBLES into the night - down and down into 
  darkness - 

On Luther s face as he falls. 

                                                                              FADE TO:

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL, CORRIDOR -  DAY 2 - 11.152020

Reed walks through hospital doors and along a corridor.

INT. PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL, WARD - DAY 2 - 11.462121

Luther sits, unmoving, almost catatonic. Facing the window. 

Pulling back, we see that Reed is with him. There s a CHESS SET 
between them. Reed moves a BLACK KNIGHT.           LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 7.


Luther doesn t stir - so Reed plays LUTHER S BISHOP.

                                    REED
                  This may turn out to be the first time 
                  I actually beat you.

His phone beeps: INCOMING MESSAGE. He checks it out, makes a 
face. Pockets the phone. Stands. 

Luther hasn t moved. Hasn t even blinked. Reed might not be 
there. Reed claps his shoulder, fraternally.

                                    REED
                Got to go. 

Reed endures a moment of helpless sadness - then kisses Luther 
on the head - in benediction and friendship. 

He leaves.

Luther stares out the window. 

                                              GO TO TITLES - AND FADE IN TO:

INT. KTR MEDICO, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - DAY 3 - 08.412222

JOHN LUTHER stands in a HALO OF EARLY MORNING LIGHT. Spellbound 
by THE DROP. Gazing into the abyss. 

TITLE OVER: SEVENMONTHS LATER

                                                                              FADE TO:

EXT. MORGAN HOUSE - DAY 3 - 07.31 SUNRISE2323

  A converted farm. Mist. Early morning crow-calls. An original 
Mini parked outside.

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, KITCHEN - DAY 3 - 07.322424

A kitchen. Eerie in the morning stillness. A tableau. On the 
  worktop- a carton of milk, a loaf of bread. A newspaper.

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (O.S.)
                  Emergency. Which service?

                                    ALICE (O.S.)
                Oh, God. Police. Please, please.

In the hallway - pass over the corpse of a DEAD GOLDEN 
RETRIEVER. Its head has been blown to jam.

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, STAIRS - DAY 3 - 07.322525

Panning up the stairs -

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (O.S.)
                Go ahead caller, you're through to the 
                  police.          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 8.


                                    ALICE (O.S.)
                  It s my mum. Hurry. It s my mum! 

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, LANDING - DAY 3 - 07.322626

  Tracking along the silent landing.

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (O.S.)
                  What s happened to your mum?

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, LAURA S BEDROOM - DAY 3 - 07.3326A26A

  A woman s bedroom. LAURA MORGAN lies dead in bed. Shot through 
the head. Blood on the bedding. The walls.

                                    ALICE (O.S.)
                Oh, God. Oh God. 

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (O.S.)
                  Miss?

                                    ALICE (O.S.)
                  THEY'RE DEAD! OH GOD, OH DEAR GOD. MY 
                  MUM! MY DAD! 

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, STUDY - DAY 3 - 07.332727

DOUGLAS MORGAN is dead at his desk. Shot through the back of 
the head. A bullet hole in the window in front of him. Blood 
  splatters the window. He s in pyjamas, a robe, slippers. 
Wearing IPODEARBUDS. Face down across some PAGE PROOFS he was 
  correcting. Fountain pen still in his hand. 

                                    ALICE
                  I THINK MY MUM AND DAD ARE DEAD!

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, SITTING ROOM - DAY 3 - 07.332828

In the sitting room, ALICE MORGAN - HORRIFICALLY BLOOD DRENCHED 
- is on the phone. 

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (V.O.)
                  Officers are on the way. We ll be 
                  there soon.

                                    ALICE
                Oh God! MUM! 

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (V.O.)
                Is anyone else in the house? 

                                    ALICE
                  I DON T KNOW! PLEASE! PLEASE!

                                    POLICE OPERATOR (V.O.)
                  Listen to me now. Stay on the line but 
                  make yourself safe. Stay on the line 
                but make yourself safe...          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 9.


EXT. MORGAN HOUSE - DAY 3 - 07.402929

As POLICE UNITSarrive, Alice stands at the front door - still 
holding the phone. Wide eyed, blood-smeared. Terrified almost 
beyond sanity by what she s witnessed.

She s an ISLAND OF BLOODY STILLNESS in the BLUE-FLASHING CHAOS. 

                                                                          FADE UP TO:

INT. KTR MEDICO, UPPER LEVEL, WALKWAY - DAY 3 - 08.4929A29A

Luther is startledfrom his reverie by ROSE TELLER entering.

                                    LUTHER
                  Boss.

                                    TELLER
                  This where you spent your gardening 
                  leave, is it? Looking into a big hole?

                                    LUTHER
                  I was just -

                                    TELLER
                  I know what you were doing.

She approaches the edge. Bewitched, as we are by great heights. 
She stoops - picks up a small chunk of plaster. Holds it over 
the abyss. Drops it.

A beat, as it falls into silence.

                                    TELLER
                  Long way.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah.

                                    TELLER
                        (steps back)
                So anyway. While conceding certain 
                  procedural shortcomings  on your part, 
                  given the exceptional circumstances, 
                the Inquiry found no grounds for 
                  disciplinary action. Which means, 
                  you re back. If you want it.

                                    LUTHER
                  I want it.

                                    TELLER
                  Good. We ve got a nice Category A for 
                  you.

She gestures - Shall we? Luther follows. After one last glance 
into the void.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 10.


INT. KTR MEDICO, CORRIDOR - DAY 3 - 08.5029B29B

Luther and Teller walk. 

                                    TELLER
                You ready for the speech?

                                    LUTHER
                I m more than ready. I m eager for the 
                  speech. Give me the speech. 

                                    TELLER
                  Rule Number One - don t get yourself 
                in this situation again. Which means, 
                you observe case management protocols. 
                Any proactive strategies are to be 
                  signed off by me. I don t sign, they 
                  don t happen. 

                                    LUTHER
                Is that the speech?

                                    TELLER
                  That s the speech.

                                    LUTHER
                  Good speech.

                                    TELLER
                  Thank you. It s one I prepared 
                  earlier. 

They walk.

                                    TELLER
                You and Zoe. You spoken?

                                    LUTHER
                Not for a while, no.

                                    TELLER
                And -?

                                    LUTHER
                It was a trial separation. I tried it, 
                  didn t like it. 

                                    TELLER
                She feel the same?

                                    LUTHER
                  I did what she asked. Got myself 
                  together. So let s see.

                                    TELLER
                  Well, that s the difference between 
                her and me. She talks about taking you 
                  back. I actually do it.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 11.


With that, she opens the door - and they step, blinking into 
the BRIGHT MORNING SUNSHINE. 

EXT. KTR MEDICO - DAY 3 - CONTINUOUS29C29C

Outside waits JUSTINRIPLEY, sheepish in new suit and colourful
tie.

                                    TELLER
                  DCIJohn Luther. DS Justin Ripley.

Luther offers his hand, they shake.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Morning, Sir.

                                    LUTHER
                  Good to meet you.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Actually, you and I, we sort of worked 
                  together once. On the Sidney Jackson 
                  thing.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, yeah! I remember. You did good 
                  work on that thing. 

                                    RIPLEY
                So, um, welcome back. And whatever. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Thank you.

He glances at Teller. Who gives him a nod. Off you go. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Car s this way, Boss. If you re ready.

                                    LUTHER
                I m ready.

They head to Ripley scar. Teller watching

  INT/EXT. RIPLEY S CAR, KTR MEDICO - DAY 3 - 08.5229D29D

Luther and Ripley get in. Ripley hands him a BUFF ENVELOPE. 
Luther takes it, doesn t open it yet.

                                    LUTHER
                So - do we need to have the chat? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  What chat?

                                    LUTHER
                  I was ill. I got better. I m back. Et 
                  cetera.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 12.


                                    RIPLEY
                  Then no. We don t need the chat.

Luther scrutiniseshim. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  I lobbied to be stationed with you. I 
                put in the request nine months ago. I 
                  chased it up three times a week, in 
                  writing.  

Ah. 

  A moment of mutual embarrassment. Luther hides it by rifling 
through the file.

                                    LUTHER
                So what vewe got?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Home invasion, murder. Victims are 
                  Douglas and Laura Morgan.

                                    LUTHER
                Who called it in?

                                    RIPLEY
                The daughter. Alice Morgan. She was 
                out when it happened.

                                    LUTHER
                  Doing what?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Buying milk and bread.

                                    LUTHER
                She live there?

                                    RIPLEY
                No. She s a Research Fellow, some 
                  Department of Physics. Lives in a flat 
                  near campus.  

                                    LUTHER
                So why was she there? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Douglas Morgan s birthday.

Luther raises an eyebrow at that. As Ripley pulls away.

EXT. MORGAN HOUSE - DAY 3 - 09.0229E29E

  Ripley's car pulls up. Luther gets out, Ripley a step behind. 

SOCO. POLICE CARS, VANS.UNIFORMED OFFICERSguarding the scene.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 13.


HEADS TURN to FOLLOW LUTHER. He ignores them. Just takes a 
private moment, considering the scene. Good to be back.

Then tucks his tie into his shirt, ducks under the yellow tape. 
Holds it up for Ripley. Who follows.

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, KITCHEN - DAY 3 - 09.0329F29F

Luther and Ripley enter through the kitchen door.

                                    RIPLEY
                  First responders have this down as 
                  point of entry. The daughter left it 
                  unlocked when she went out. 

                                    LUTHER
                So we need to look for any indication 
                the shooter s been watching the house - 
                  possible vantage points, a hiding 
                  place with good line of sight. 

Step over the blood-stained area from which Alice called 999.

                                    LUTHER
                You might want to keep your hands in 
                  your pockets - it reduces the 
                  temptation to touch anything.

Ripley obliges. They step cautiously over the bloody corpse of 
the dog. Climb the stairs. 

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, LAURA S BEDROOM  - DAY 3 - 09.0429G29G

Luther looks with tenderness at Laura Morgan. Notices PILLSat 
the bedside.

                                    LUTHER
                  Sleeping pills and separate bedrooms. 
                  What does that say to you?

                                    RIPLEY
                The husband snored?

                                    LUTHER
                  Anything else? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Can t say. Sometimes separate beds 
                  make for a happy marriage.

                                    LUTHER
                  That s a very generous thought. 

He turns to Ripley. Really sees him

                                    LUTHER
                  That s good.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 14.


Ripley basks in the light of Luther s approval. As Luther turns 
back to the body. Committing the scene to memory. Then exits.

INT. MORGAN HOUSE, STUDY - DAY 3 - 09.0529H29H

Luther examines Douglas - with compassion but no 
  sentimentality. He circles the desk, hands in pockets. He 
squats. Looking hard. Never still.

Using a pen, he teases an EARBUD from Douglas s ear. We get a 
TINNY BURST of AUSTERE CLASSICAL MUSIC - Stravinsky.

                                    LUTHER
                He didn t hear it coming.

Checks out the UNCORRECTED PROOFS. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  He s a published poet. Small press.

Luther straightens, takes it all in.

                                    LUTHER
                So there s no burglary, no attempt to 
                  stage the scene. No sexual assault. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  Contract killing, maybe? 

                                    LUTHER
                  That s workable. I mean, the shooter s 
                  definitely done his homework. He knows 
                the layout of the house, he s quick to 
                  eliminate physical threats - the dog 
                  first, Douglas next. What was the 
                  weapon?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Some kind of mid calibre pistol 9mmor 
                  .38. 

                                    LUTHER
                   Some kind . No gun?

                                    RIPLEY
                  They re still searching. House, 
                  grounds, drains. Nothing so far. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Someone this efficient, you d expect 
                him to ditch the gun here - at the 
                  scene. Am I missing something? Does 
                  this seem right to you? 

                                    RIPLEY
                  None of it seems right to me.

                                    LUTHER
                  Good. It s not, is it. It s not right.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 15.


EXT. MORGAN HOUSE - DAY 3 - 09.0729I29I

Luther and Ripley duck under the tape, head back to the car. In 
the background, an ambulance arrives.

EXT. HOBB LANE - DAY 3 - 10.0229J29J

Luther and Ripley walk to the station. Luther produces his 
phone - nods for Ripley to go in ahead of him. Then paces as he 
dials.

SCENE 30 - 33 INCLUSIVE OMITTED

EXT. FORD AND VARGAS - DAY 3 - 10.023434

  Establishing a hyper-modern office building. On a plaque by the 
door: FORD AND VARGAS LAW CHAMBERS. Through the glass we see a 
small figure, ZOE LUTHER, cross the lobby and enter the lift. 
The lift goes up.

3535INT. FORD AND VARGAS, LIFT/ CORRIDOR TO ZOE S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 
10.02

In the lift, Zoe s phone rings. Embarrassed, she snatches it 
from her handbag.

                                  ZOE
                        (low)
                Zoe Luther.

  Intercut Zoe walking from the lift to her office and Luther on 
the street.

                                    LUTHER
                  Babe, it s me. 

                                  ZOE
                  John...hi! 

                                    LUTHER
                So guess what?

                                  ZOE
                  What?

                                    LUTHER
                The Board of Inquiry came down on my 
                  side. 

                                  ZOE
                Oh, John. That s such - that s really 
                  good news. That s great news. I mean, 
                  I knew they would, obviously. But - 
                  wow. That s great. That s really, 
                  reallygreat.

                                    LUTHER
                I m back at work.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 16.


                                  ZOE
                  Already!?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah, well. They missed me.

                                  ZOE
                Oh, that s great. That s such good 
                  news. 

                                    LUTHER
                  What s wrong?

                                  ZOE
                  Nothing s wrong - I m just on my way 
                to a meeting. Can we talk a bit later?

                                    LUTHER
                  Absolutely. That s why I m calling. We 
                  need to have that talk.

                                  ZOE
                We do. We really do. Absolutely.

                                    LUTHER
                Are you okay? 

                                  ZOE
                I m fine. Just hassled. 

                                    LUTHER
                So we need the talk. Tonight?

                                  ZOE
                  Tonight - I ve got a dinner.

                                    LUTHER
                  After dinner, then. I ll come round. 

                                  ZOE
                  Okay. Tonight. Look, I m sorry. I 
                  really do have to go. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah. You ve got a meeting.
                        (beat)
                  Zoe?

                                  ZOE
                  What?

                                    LUTHER
                  I ve got myself together. I m back. 
                I m good.

                                  ZOE
                  I know.

She hesitates. Doesn t know what else to say. Hangs up.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 17.


BACK TO LUTHER as he pockets his phone. Takes a nervous breath. 
Here we go. 

He enters the building.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 3 - 10.12 (FORMERLY SC 31)35A35A

Luther steps onto the BUSY BULLPEN- to see A WELCOME HOME! 
banner has been pinned up. 

He laughs as - one by one - the ENTIRE SERIOUS CRIME UNIT STAND 
TO APPLAUD HIS RETURN. Cornish stands to one side, looking 
sceptical.

Then Teller grins - and hands Luther a NEW MUG. Luther takes 
it. Reads aloud the legend they had printed.

                                    LUTHER
                   You don t have to be mad to work 
                  here. But it helps. 

A broad grin. Reed steps forward. He and Luther hug it out. 
Loud applause. Whistles. 

INT. SCU - LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 10.1335B35B

Luther and Reed enter. Luther is perturbed by the tidiness of 
his area. Empty desk. Office chair tucked neatly into it. 
Telephone. Desk tidy with no pens. Naked pinboard.

He puts down the mug. Picks it up again. Puts it down somewhere 
else. No good. Wherever he puts it, the desk is still empty.

                                    REED
                  They welcomed you back with a weird 
                  one.

                                    LUTHER
                        (distracted)
                  They did. They gave me a weird one. 
                  You?

Reed shows him a THICK CASE FILE, then drops it onto his desk

                                    REED
                  Honour killing. 

Luther winces, turns to the monitor at his desk. Glances at 
Alice Morgan - with a female Family Liaison Officer - sitting 
in shocked silence in the interview room.

                                    REED
                So how are you?

                                    LUTHER
                I m splendid.

                                    REED
                  Excellent, then. Good. Splendid.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 18.


Opens his case file. 

SCENE 36 OMITTED3636

INT. SCU, OUTSIDE INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 3 - 14.233737

Luther walks to the door of the interview room. Reaches for the 
handle. Hesitates. Enjoys the moment. Back!

Then opens the door and steps through.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 3 - 14.233838

Alice looks up as Luther enters and nods to the Family Liaison 
  Officer. The FLOleaves the room.

Luther is low-key, compassionate, unthreatening.

                                    LUTHER 
                Ms. Morgan? 

                                    ALICE
                  Alice, please.  

She has the beatific air of the deeply medicated.

                                    LUTHER
                  Alice, I m JohnLuther, Senior 
                  Investigating Officer. May I?

She nods - go ahead. Luther sits.

                                    LUTHER
                  I know you must be very tired. 

                                    ALICE
                  Thank you. I am. I don t think I ve 
                  ever been so tired.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s shock. It s how we react. It s 
                one of those strange things.

This moment of everyday compassion moves her almost to tears.

                                    LUTHER
                  I know this has been a terrible, 
                  terribleday. I know things look bleak 
                and you feel very alone. But believe 
                me when I say, we ll do everything 
                  possible to get whoever did this.

                                    ALICE
                  Thank you.

                                    LUTHER
                So these things I m going to ask - I 
                  have to ask them. I m sorry.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 19.


She sniffs. Nods. Go on.

                                    LUTHER
                Do you have any idea who might have 
                  wished your parents harm? Even if it s 
                  just a feeling, a sense of unease 
                  about someone - something you heard 
                  your mum or dad say, maybe? Something 
                  that didn t sit right.

                                    ALICE
                No. There s nothing. Mum was - a very 
                  kind, very gracious woman. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Would you like a glass of water? A cup 
                of tea? 

                                    ALICE
                I m sorry. I ll be okay.

                                    LUTHER
                And your dad?

                                    ALICE
                He was a very admirable man. 

                                    LUTHER
                The thing is, Alice - this was a very 
                  singular crime. No sign of robbery, no 
                  apparent - I m sorry - no sexual 
                  motivation. Now, I ve been a police 
                  officer a long time, and one of the 
                  things I ve learned in that time is, 
                  crimes like this aren t random. They 
                  don t happen without motive. I know 
                  it s painful, but I need you to dig 
                  deep and really think - about any 
                  money worries your parents may have 
                  been experiencing, perhaps any marital 
                  difficulties -

                                    ALICE
                  I ve done nothing but think. All I do 
                is think. There s nothing. Absolutely 
                  nothing.

Their eyes meet. Her gaze is wide, wounded. Raw. Trusting him 
  absolutely. Wanting to please - and failing.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 14.413939

Teller is watching Luther and Alice on the monitor. She stands 
as DETECTIVE CHIEF SUPERINTENDANT CORNISH enters.

                                    TELLER
                  Guv.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 20.


                                    CORNISH
                So he s back.

                                    TELLER
                  From outer space.

                                    CORNISH
                You do know the man is nitroglycerine. 

                                    TELLER
                  With respect, sir - a comprehensive 
                  investigation under your edict cleared 
                him of any wrong-doing - 

                                    CORNISH
                Not least because the sole other 
                  witness is in a coma measuring twelve 
                on the Glasgow Scale. 

                                    TELLER
                  - and Mia Dalton is at school today, 
                not in the ground.

A beat. Challenging but not unfriendly.  

                                    CORNISH
                  Rose, if you bet too heavily on Luther 
                  then you stand or fall with him. And 
                  with you goes this unit - and my 
                  credibility, as its architect. Haven t 
                  you ve worked too hard, for too long 
                to place that big a risk on such a 
                  wild card?

                                    TELLER
                  I don t consider him a risk. 

                                    CORNISH
                  Then what is he?

                                    TELLER
                An investment. 

                                    CORNISH
                And if Henry Madsen wakes up? Gives 
                his account of what happened that 
                  night?

                                    TELLER
                He won t.

He gives her a wry look. Exits. And Teller sags. Perhaps not as 
  confident as she made herself appear.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 3 - 16.164040

Luther and Alice.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 21.


                                    LUTHER
                One last time - just to get it 
                  absolutely clear in my head. You saw 
                  nothing or anyone unusual. 

                                    ALICE
                I m sorry. I wish I could tell you I 
                  had. 
                        (Beat)
                  I ve got this feeling, this strange 
                  feeling. Like I m looking at it down 
                the wrong end of a telescope. As if it 
                  happened years ago.

Luther pinches his nose, stifles a yawn.

                                    LUTHER
                  That happens. Under stress, we 
                  remember things in strange ways. 
                  Different parts of the brain take 
                  over. 

He makes a note. Alice s eyes flick to him as he writes.

He drifts off for a moment. Stares at the paper. Dry-washes his 
face with his hands - then YAWNS, extravagantly.

                                    LUTHER
                  Sorry. Long, long day.  

                                    ALICE
                  Really. There s no need. It s very 
                  tiring. Going round and round like 
                  this. You must be exhausted.

  A moment. Something in Luther s eyes. 

Alice sees it. Their eyes meet. Something has changed between 
them. 

                                    LUTHER
                Can I get you a coffee, maybe?

                                    ALICE
                  A tea would be nice.

He stands, aching and stiff. Paperwork under his arm. Exits. 

INT. SCU, OUTSIDE INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 3 - 16.184141

He shuts the door. And we see the tiredness was a ruse. He s 
full of energy, electrified. He races past Ripley. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  What s happening?

Luther sweeps past. Stops. Turns.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 22.


                                    LUTHER
                It was her. She did it.

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 16.264242

Teller, Ripley and Luther look at the video feed - a SERENE 
ALICE.

Luther hits a KEY COMBINATION on a laptop. 

ANGLE ON THE MONITORS: Luther YAWNS, extravagantly.

                                    LUTHER
                  Sorry. Long, long day.  

                                    ALICE
                  Really. There s no need.

Luther hits PAUSE.

                                    LUTHER
                She didn t yawn.

Blank looks.

                                    LUTHER
                  Yawning s contagious. Someone in a 
                  room yawns, you yawn too. Even talking 
                  about it -
                      (He waits. Teller and Ripley 
                        each suppress a yawn.)
                  See? It s got to do with the parts of 
                the brain that deal with empathy.
                        (tapsat the back of his 
                        skull, impatient.)
                She didn t yawn. She s a psychopath.

                                    TELLER
                And - he s back.

                                    RIPLEY 
                  Nothing in her affect points to 
                  survivor guilt -  Why them? Why not 
                  me?  That s pretty atypical.

                                    TELLER
                So her affect s off. It could be shock 
                  - medication. Whatever.

                                    LUTHER
                It could be, except it s not.

                                    RIPLEY
                  This kind of scenario, an offender 
                  typically tries to stage the scene - 
                  make it look like murder/suicide, 
                  burglary gone wrong. She did none of 
                  that.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 23.


                                    LUTHER
                  Exactly. 

                                    TELLER
                  Exactly how?

                                    LUTHER
                  She s proud of this! Why let someone 
                  else take the credit?

                                    TELLER
                To alibi herself? 

                                    LUTHER
                She doesn t care about alibis. She s a 
                  malignant narcissist; this is all 
                  about power, self-affirmation, 
                  prestige.



                                    TELLER
                The timelinedoesn t work. There s not 
                  enough time.

                                    LUTHER
                  There s not enough anything. Absence 
                is the point - it s her way of saying 
                   look at me .

                                    TELLER
                So where isthe gun? It s got to be 
                  somewhere. Everything s somewhere.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know. 

                                    TELLER
                Say that again. That was special. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know.

Beat.

  Considers Alice on the monitor. 

                                    TELLER
                She doesn t look the type.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, that s the thing about people -  
                  they always manage to surprise you.

INT. FORD AND VARGAS, OFFICE FLOOR  - DAY 3 - 16.374343

Zoe walks through the corporate office.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 24.


She stop outside her office. MARK NORTH is waiting. Handsome, 
  tousled, dishevelled. Frayed corduroy jacket, jeans. He stands, 
  grinning. And everyone in a fifty foot radius falls in love 
with him.

                                    MARK
                Ms. Luther. I m Mark North, from -

                                  ZOE
                        (shaking his hand)
                  I remember, yes. 

She ushers him into her office, closes the door. 

INT. FORD AND VARGAS, ZOE S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 16.384444

Zoe stands there. Facing Mark North. He stands, facing her. And 
before you know it, they re kissing.

Until Zoe breaks away.

                                    MARK
                Did you tell him?

Her silence says it all.

                                    MARK
                  Zoe, he needs to know. All this 
                  sneaking around, it s mad. You ve been 
                  separated for months! He s the only 
                one who doesn t seem to know it.

                                  ZOE
                  I know, I know. But I just couldn t 
                  tell him while he was - y know.
                  Getting better. And now I wake up, I 
                  feel sick. I ve got this permanent 
                  knot in my stomach. It s going to kill 
                  him.

                                    MARK
                You can t keep lying. It s cruel. 

Her eyes soften, grow sad. Because she knows he s right.

SCENE 45 OMITTED4545

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 3 - 16.394646

Luther enters awkwardly. He s carrying two mugs of tea. He 
passes one to Alice. She sips. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Your chair okay? Comfy?

                                    ALICE
                  It s fine, thank you        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 25.


                                    LUTHER
                  Because sometimes we like to shorten 
                one of the legs. It means a suspect 
                  can t get comfortable, can t relax. 
                  They re always unbalanced. Too hot?

Eye contact. Alice noting the implied shift in her status.

                                    ALICE
                  Really. I m fine.

  A connection between them. A knowledge. Almost flirtatious.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 3 - 16.424747

Reed and Ripleyenter. Ripleybusies himself, types in 
  password, turns up the volume on the audio feed. Then takes a 
seat. They watch.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 3 - 18.334848

Luther glances at his notes.

                                    LUTHER
                  I see you got your Ph.D. at eighteen  - 
                  astrophysics, was it?

                                    ALICE
                   Dark Matter Distribution in Disc 
                  Galaxies.  

                                    LUTHER
                  Dark Matter. That s the stuff that -  
                  makes up the universe. Except we can t 
                see it. It doesn t interact with the 
                  stuff we know about in the way we d 
                  expect.

                                    ALICE
                No, but its presence can be inferred 
                  from gravitational effects on visible 
                  matter. We know it s there. We just 
                  can t see it. Would many police 
                  officers be able to gain my trust by 
                  having this conversation?

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, I just like to read books.

                                    ALICE
                It beats burning them.

                                    LUTHER
                  You, though - you re the one who s 
                  practically a genius.

                                    ALICE
                  Practically?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 26.


She raises a feline eyebrow. And Luther grins - satisfied and 
predatory. Two people - sizing each other up. Knowing each 
other for what they are...and liking each other.

                                    LUTHER
                So you went up to Oxford at -?

                                    ALICE
                  Thirteen.

                                    LUTHER
                  Wow. I mean, that s very young. It s 
                bad enough, just being the clever one 
                in the family - these kids, prodigies, 
                  they have it really tough. They re not 
                one thing, they re not another. 
                  Freaks, really. But I expect your 
                  parents were proud.

                                    ALICE
                  Very. There were newspaper articles - 
                  pictures of mum, dad and me, smiling 
                in the library. When I was nine, I 
                  proved tan-1X(tangent minus one -x). 
                  They bought me a dress. Got me on the 
                  news.



                                    LUTHER
                But still. What must it have been 
                  like? You re thirteen, your classmates 
                are - what? - twenty, twenty-two? No 
                  friends your own age. No boyfriends. 

                                    ALICE
                  That s quite a presumption. Actually, 
                  I matured very early - sexually.

He meets that challenge with unwavering eye.

                                    LUTHER
                You familiar with Ockham sRazor?

                                    ALICE
                   All things being equal, the simplest 
                  solution is the best solution.   

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, what this principle tells me is, 
                the only other person we know to have 
                  been in your parents  house this 
                  morning - it was you.

                                    ALICE
                  I don t see how it s possible to 
                  arrive at that conclusion.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 27.


                                    LUTHER
                  There s no evidence of an intruder. 

                                    ALICE
                But absence of evidence isn t evidence 
                of absence.

                                    LUTHER
                  Okay, fine. I m making a leap - but 
                  it s a tiny leap. More of a hop, 
                  really.

                                    ALICE
                        (celestial smile)
                Is this where you ask if I hated my 
                  parents?

                                    LUTHER
                  It s about that time, yeah.

                                    ALICE
                Did they make me a freak? Yes. Did I 
                  hate them? Absolutely. Did I kill 
                  them? No.

                                    LUTHER
                Can you prove that?

                                    ALICE
                  I can t prove a negative. It can t be 
                  done.

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, innocence is a negative. It s 
                the absence of guilt.

                                    ALICE
                  Meaning the burden of proof is 
                  entirely yours. If you think I did 
                  this, then you need to demonstrate how 
                and when. 

He sits back. Gazing at her in frank admiration.

                                    LUTHER
                And I won t be able to do that, will 
                I? 

                                    ALICE
                  Well, you can certainly try. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Because there s nothing. You don t 
                  interact with the stuff we know about 
                in the way we d expect. Your presence, 
                  your actions, they can only be 
                  inferred by - a certain absence.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 28.


                                    ALICE
                Is that a compliment?

                                    LUTHER
                  Absolutely. 

                                    ALICE
                  I hope you re not trying to beguile 
                me. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I wouldn t be so foolish. But here s 
                the thing, Alice. Right now, you can 
                  revel in your brilliance. But people 
                  slip up. Every single time.

                                    ALICE
                  Well, that s just faulty logic 
                  postulated on imperfect data 
                  collection. For instance, what if you 
                  only catch people who make mistakes? 
                  That would skew the figures, wouldn t 
                it?

                                    LUTHER
                  Wouldn t it just. But really, that s 
                the thing. Most criminals, they re 
                  just not as clever as they think they 
                  are.

                                    ALICE
                  Well. That must get monotonous. For 
                  someone as brilliant as you.

Again, they share a knowing smile. Then Luther stands. Picks up 
his paperwork. Exits.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - NIGHT 3 - 18.404949

Luther enters, joins Reed and Ripley.On the monitors are 
  MULTIPLE IMAGES OF ALICE.

                                    LUTHER
                Am I wrong?

                                    REED
                  You re not wrong. 

Teller enters. Reed returns to his own work.

                                    RIPLEY
                  There s really nothing we can find to 
                  charge her with?

                                    TELLER
                  Such as? Being a space oddity?

                                    LUTHER
                  Such as, she killed them.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 29.


                                    TELLER
                  Right now - she s little girl lost. 
                  We ve got no real motive.

                                    LUTHER
                She hated her parents.

                                    TELLER
                  Seriously, who doesn t? There s no 
                  forensics, no witnesses. Timeline
                  alone gets it laughed out of the CPS.

                                    LUTHER
                You saw her in there! It excites her, 
                  that we know she did this. 

                                    TELLER
                So prove it. Bring me something of 
                  substance. Find me the gun, put it in 
                her hand. Until then - cut her loose 
                and take her home.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 3 - 18.495050

Alice looks up as Luther enters. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Thanks for your help. You re free to 
                go. 

She smiles, stands. Perfectly composed. Walks to the door. 

Luther steps aside. Instead of leaving, she steps up to him. 
Very close. Very intimate.

                                    ALICE
                  I enjoyed our chat.

                                    LUTHER
                Me, too.

                                    ALICE
                  You re very interesting. I might 
                  decide to keep you.

Luther breaks eye contact and steps aside.

Alice walks away. Luther follows with his eyes. Troubled.

  EXT./INT. LUTHER S CAR - NIGHT 3 - 21.165151

Luther drives. Watching the city go by.

  EXT./INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT 3 - 21.3251A51A

Alice in back of a police car. Watching the city go by.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 30.


EXT. LUTHER HOME - NIGHT 3 - 22.215252

Luther walks from his car to the door.

EXT. ALICE S PLACE, MAIN ENTRANCE - NIGHT 3 - 22.215353

Alice walks to her door. 

INT. ALICE S PLACE, HALLWAY/LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 3 - 22.225454

Alice lets herself in. Closes the door. The flat is graceful, 
  austere, almost Japanese. Except for the walls, which are hung 
with FRAMED IMAGES FROM THE HUBBLETELESCOPE - both gorgeous 
and forbidding: VAST GALAXIES, EXPLODING STARS. The only human 
images are ALBERT EINSTEIN and ROBERT OPPENHEIMER.

She enters the LIVING ROOM. Looks at the emptiness. Takes 
comfort from it. 

EXT. LUTHER HOME - NIGHT 3 - 22.235555

Luther rings the bell. He s agitated. He waits there for a 
moment. Then Zoe answers the door. Doubly devastating in an 
evening dress.

                                    LUTHER
                  Wow! New dress!
                        (realisingit s not for his 
                          benefit)
                Oh - you had a dinner. Of course. You 
                  look nice! 

                                  ZOE
                  Come in.

INT. LUTHER HOME, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 3 - 22.245656

Luther follows her into the living room. She doesn t sit. Just 
picks up a glass of wine - not her first - and stands there, 
anxious and tense. 

                                    LUTHER
                  What s wrong?

                                  ZOE
                You look tired.

                                    LUTHER
                I m all right. What s the matter?

                                  ZOE
                  John, I know what you came here to 
                  discuss. But before you say anything, 
                you need to know: I met somebody.

                                    LUTHER
                I m sorry?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 31.


                                  ZOE
                  I met someone.

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you mean? Met who?

                                  ZOE
                  I metsomeone.

                                    LUTHER
                  Who?

                                  ZOE
                  Someone.

                                    LUTHER
                  What do you mean? When?

                                  ZOE
                  A while ago.

                                    LUTHER
                  Who? 

                                  ZOE
                It doesn t matter.

He stands there, stunned. Trying to work it out, work it 
  through.

                                    LUTHER
                Of course it matters. Are you sleeping 
                  with him?

                                  ZOE
                  Yes.

He s wounded, stunned, helpless. He paces the floor as if 
seeking escape - an outlet - but there s none - 

- until he explodes with rage - kicks the door - shatters the 
panels - punches the door - once, twice - and again - and again 
  - finally RIPS IT FROM ITS HINGES and -

Stops.

Sees Zoe. Looking at him. Not with anger, not even fear - but a 
sadness that is unendurable.

                                  ZOE
                  Just go home, John.

                                    LUTHER
                  This is my home.

Long beat.

                                  ZOE
                No.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 32.


Luther exits. Zoe picks up her mobile phone and dials.

                                  ZOE
                  Ian, it s Zoe.

EXT. LUTHER HOME - NIGHT 3 - CONTINUOUS5757

Luther crosses to his car. He gets in. Sits. Lost.

SCENE 58 - 59 INCLUSIVE OMITTED

INT. BAR - NIGHT 3 - 23.486060

A late night bar. Almost deserted. Luther drinks in silence, 
toying with his wedding ring. Finally he removes the ring and 
pockets it.

Reed enters, signals the barman for a drink and sits down 
beside Luther in companionable silence. A beat.

                                    LUTHER
                Are you going to say anything?

                                    REED
                  Anything you d like me to say?

                                    LUTHER
                  Nope.

                                    REED
                  Then why say it? 

Luther nods. Drinks. 

SCENE 60AOMITTED60A60A

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 06.5560B60B

Alice drinks coffee, watches 24 HOUR NEWS.Bored, she turns off 
the TV. Goes to her laptop.

ANGLE ON THE SCREEN: A RAPID-FIRE COLLAGE AS - 

She GooglesJOHN LUTHER + POLICE. Flicks through MULTIPLE 
  HEADLINES about Luther s arrest of HENRY MADSEN: SERIAL KILLER 
MADSEN  MAY HAVE KILLED MORE  - MADSEN  MAY NEVER WAKE  FROM 
ARREST COMA...MADSEN DETECTIVE SUSPENDED IN  TORTURE  
  INQUIRY...MADSEN INQUIRY CLEARS DETECTIVE...

She focuses on a TEXT FRAGMENT reading  DETECTIVE JOHN LUTHER, 
38 . GooglesWWW.GRO.GOV.UK.Pulls up LUTHER S MARRIAGE 
  CERTIFICATE. On which is listed HIS WIFE - ZOE GILLIAN LUTHER, 
NEE CORNELL. 

SHE GOOGLESZOE GILLIAN CORNELL . FINDS A LEEDS UNIVERSITY 
ALUMNUS WEBSITE- ZOE CORNELL, HUMANITARIAN LAW. She Googles
ZOE LUTHER + HUMAN RIGHTS + LONDON. Arrives at the websiteof 
FORD AND VARGAS.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 33.


Prints it all off. Begins to read. MADSEN  MAY NEVER WAKE  FROM 
ARREST COMA. 

She smiles. Sips coffee. The sun coming up. 

EXT. BAR, STREETS - DAY 4 - 07.416161

Reed and Luther step out, wincing in the DAYLIGHT. Luther 
  straightens his tie. He s been in these clothes since we met 
him. He looks like he s been awake since Christmas. 

                                    REED
                  Where you going?

                                    LUTHER
                You ever get a song stuck in your 
                  head? It goes round and round? 

                                    REED
                  T Pau.China in Your Hand. Deep 
                  strangeness, that song. High 
                  weirdness.

                                    LUTHER
                So I keep thinking. She s a narcissist 
                She needs constant recognition, needs 
                to exaggerate accomplishments. How 
                  does somebody like that keep secret 
                the best, the most perfect thing she 
                  ever did? 

                                    REED
                You don t need to be thinking about 
                  Alice Morgan right now.

                                    LUTHER
                  Why? What do you suggest I think 
                  about. Henry Madsen? My wife?

                                    REED
                  I dunno.Normal stuff. Breakfast.

                                    LUTHER
                  Thing is, the way Alice sees it, the 
                  world is full of people who ve
                  offended her, embarrassed her, let her 
                  down - and those people deserve to be 
                  punished. She got away with it once. 
                  She s already eyeing her next victim. 
                And she won t stop until somebody 
                  stops her. 

                                    REED
                So be patient. Build a case. 

                                    LUTHER
                  There is no case! She didn t leave 
                  one. She didn t leave anything.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 34.


                                    REED
                  Then what are you thinking?

                                    LUTHER
                  She s compelled to impress - people in 
                  general, but right now me in 
                  particular. She needs to show me how 
                  brilliant she is. She needs to be 
                  admired.

                                    REED
                And  -?

                                    LUTHER
                  I give her what she needs. Then take 
                it away. Make her angry. See how 
                  careless it makes her. 

He walks off.

                                    REED
                  John -

                                    LUTHER
                  What?

                                    REED
                  Slow down. 

Luther just gives him a look. Shrugs. Walks off.

INT. PET CREMATORIUM - DAY 4 - 07.5561A61A

The Morgans  dog being wheeled on a gurney.

INT. PET CREMATORIUM, INCINERATOR - DAY 4 - 07.5561B61B

TWO VETS manhandle the dog into the incinerator...Where the dog 
is consumed in jets of bright blue flame.

EXT. ALICE S PLACE, WALKWAY BRIDGE - DAY 4 - 08.446262

Luther is waiting, lost in grim introspection, as Alice Morgan 
approaches on the walkway.

Alice holds open her bag - an urn inside.

                                    ALICE
                  They burned my dog.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s protocol. It s what happens. 

                                    ALICE
                He was only a dog. It seems unduly 
                  pitiless to me, to burn someone s dog.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 35.


                                    LUTHER
                It seems kind of pitiless to shoot the 
                dog in the first place.

She reads him. Sees his weariness. Reaches out. Touches him. 
Scans him with laser-bright eyes.

                                    ALICE
                You look exhausted. Would you like to 
                  come in?

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 08.476363

Alice and Luther enter. Alice places the urn on the mantel.

Luther gazes at the PICTURES on her wall: images taken from the 
  HubbleSpace Station. Graphics of the early universe. Vast 
  galaxies. Exploding stars. 

                                    LUTHER
                How are you?

                                    ALICE
                  Fine. Unburdened.

                                    LUTHER
                  Good. It s good to feel unburdened.

                                    ALICE
                Are we being listened to?

                                    LUTHER
                  Would it make a difference?

                                    ALICE
                Who knows?

                                    LUTHER
                  Well, we re not.  

                                    ALICE
                So you re not here to interrogate me?

                                    LUTHER
                No. 

She smiles, a little. Stands at his shoulder. Very close.

                                    ALICE
                  Liar.

She points out the LARGEST PHOTOGRAPH. It stands over the 
mantel, over the urn.

                                    ALICE
                  This is a black hole. It consumes 
                  matter, sucks it in - crushes it 
                  beyond existence.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 36.

                                    ALICE (cont'd)
                  When I first heard that, I thought, 
                  that s evil at its most pure. 
                  Something that drags you in, crushes 
                  you, makes you nothing. 
                      (Off Luther s reaction)
                  What s wrong? Don t you believe in 
                  evil? 

                                    LUTHER
                  I have to. I ve seen it.

                                    ALICE
                Ah. Henry Madsen.

                                    LUTHER
                  Him. Others like him.

                                    ALICE
                Me?

                                    LUTHER
                  Conceivably.

                                    ALICE
                  What s happening to your marriage?
                        (offhis reaction)
                  Last time I saw you, there was a ring. 
                  Today: no ring. Is someone else 
                  involved?

                                    LUTHER
                  That s not what I m here to discuss.

                                    ALICE
                Is he handsome?

                                    LUTHER
                If you like that sort of thing.

                                    ALICE
                Are you in pain? 

                                    LUTHER
                You don t understand love, Alice. It s 
                not your fault. You can mimic it, you 
                can recognise it in others - but you 
                can never understand it. 

                                    ALICE
                Did you come here for sex?

                                    LUTHER
                No.

                                    ALICE
                  Because you d be surprised by how many 
                men do. Do you think they have any 
                  idea how fatuous they look?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 37.


                                    LUTHER
                  I think a lot of us are afraid of 
                  that, yeah. 

                                    ALICE
                  Then why?

                                    LUTHER
                To tell you I know you kept the gun. 

                                    ALICE
                  Well, why would I do that?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because you couldn t help yourself. 

                                    ALICE
                And how did you arrive at this 
                  diagnosis?

                                    LUTHER
                  See, you think you re unique - but so 
                  does everyone else with your disorder. 
                  You re all unique in exactly the same 
                  way.

                                    ALICE
                  Wouldn t it make things easy for you 
                if that were true. But it s not. 
                  There s no gun to find.

                                    LUTHER
                  Keeping it wasn t a rational decision. 
                It was a compulsion, something you did 
                  because you neededto. That compulsion 
                  makes you weak in ways you can t see 
                and don t understand. And it will 
                  bring you down. Always does. Tick 
                  tock.Tick tock.

                                    ALICE
                Are you threatening me? Because 
                  honestly, I wouldn t.

                                    LUTHER
                And why s that?

                                    ALICE
                  Come, now. Really. Because I d be hurt 
                and angry. 

                                    LUTHER
                You trying to frighten me now? 

                                    ALICE
                  Why, are you frightened?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 38.


                                    LUTHER
                  Because I don t think you d do that 
                  unless you were scared - and you 
                  wouldn t be scared unless you thought 
                  I might be right.

                                    ALICE
                So you ve identified my critical 
                  defect. Let s move on. Let s talk 
                  about yours. What s your weakness? 
                  What makes you afraid?

                                    LUTHER
                You do know I can see you, the actual 
                  you: I can see the mess two inches 
                  behind your eyes. 

                                    ALICE
                  Such insight. I wonder - why did your 
                  wife turn her face from you, John? Why 
                  would she do that? Is it because you 
                  shine so bright?

Eye contact. She looks at him with great tenderness. Almost 
pity. 

But Luther turns away from it. 

                                    LUTHER
                I m coming for you. 

                                    ALICE
                Not if I come for you first. 

He exits. She watches him. Her expression deeply ambiguous. 

EXT. STREETS BY FORD & VARGAS - DAY 4 - 09.096464

Luther is deep in thought. More shaken by Alice s words than he 
first appeared. Thinks. Checks his watch. Scowls. Makes a 
  decision. Walks towards the building.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, KITCHEN  - DAY 4 - 09.1164A64A

Alice is in the kitchen. Deep in thought. Half unconsciously, 
she s toying with a VICIOUS HATPIN- moving it through her 
fingers - round and round, roundand round. 

She turns to leave. Slipping the hatpinup her sleeve.

EXT. FORD AND VARGAS - DAY 4 - 09.466565

Through the glass we see Luther enter via the main doors. He 
strides past reception. Badges the security guards. Vaults the 
  turnstile and strides to the lift.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 39.


INT. FORD AND VARGAS, LIFT/ RECEPTION/ CORRIDOR - DAY 4 - 09.476666

The lift opens. Luther emerges. STAFF look with alarm as he 
walks down the corridor to Zoe s office - and through the door.

INT. FORD AND VARGAS, ZOE S OFFICE - DAY 4 - 09.486767

Zoe is with SEVERAL SENIOR PARTNERS. All of whom look up in 
alarm as Luther bursts in. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Morning. Everybody out.

                                  ZOE
                  John -

                                    LUTHER
                        (claps hands)
                  Everybody OUT! Raus!Raus!

  Reluctantly, the SENIOR PARTNERS stand. Exchanging glances. 

                                    LUTHER
                If you re thinking about calling 
                  security, don t bother. Call the 
                  police.  ndale! ndale!Arriba!
                  Arriba!

                                  ZOE
                  He s joking. This is his sense of 
                  humour. Everybody, this is my husband. 
                  John.

                                    LUTHER
                        (ushering them)
                  Out! Out!

Zoe makes a gesture, reassuring them. They exit. And Luther 
jams a chair under the door handle.

                                  ZOE
                Way to get me sacked.

He sprawls on the chair. No threat in him.

                                  ZOE
                  John, the people in this office, they 
                  don t know you. They re scared. They 
                  think you re going to do something. 

                                    LUTHER
                Do I embarrass you?

                                  ZOE
                  Right now? Right at this moment? 
                  Absolutely. Yes.

                                    LUTHER
                Is that what this is all about?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 40.


                                  ZOE
                No.

                                    LUTHER
                  Then am I boring? Is that what it is? 
                  Because personally, I don t think I m 
                  boring.

                                  ZOE
                  You re not boring. You re the opposite 
                of boring.

                                    LUTHER
                So he sboring? Rupert Fanshaw-
                  Pendleton or whatever his name is.

                                  ZOE
                His name is Mark.

                                    LUTHER
                So does a woman just reach a stage in 
                  life when she wants a man to be 
                  boring? Because I have to tell you - 
                  nobody warned me about this.

                                  ZOE
                  He s not boring. 

                                    LUTHER
                Are you living with him? 

                                  ZOE
                For the moment.

                                    LUTHER
                Is the sex good?

                                  ZOE
                  It s not about the sex.

                                    LUTHER
                  It s always about the sex. You enjoy 
                sex with him. You must. And the 
                  pictures of that go round and round my 
                  head like a train.

                                  ZOE
                  Your trouble is, the train in your 
                  head never stops. You really 
                  frightened me last night.

                                    LUTHER
                You know I d never hurt you.

                                  ZOE
                Why are you here, John?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 41.


                                    LUTHER
                  I couldn t help but wonder if perhaps 
                you might like to come home and be 
                  married to me.

                                  ZOE
                  Some men bring flowers - 

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes, but this was a grand gesture. 

                                  ZOE
                  This is professional ruination, is 
                  what this is. Next time, think 
                  flowers.

                                    LUTHER
                  Next time?

                                  ZOE
                You know what I mean.

Luther wearies. Searching her gaze for some vestige of hope.

                                    LUTHER
                  I just - I need to know why. 

                                  ZOE
                You always do. But not everything has 
                  a motive. Sometimes things just 
                  happen.

                                    LUTHER
                  Nothing just happens. There are laws. 
                  Physical laws, I mean - not -
                        (Beat)
                How did we get here? Yesterday I m in 
                one place. Suddenly I m fifteen 
                  thousand miles away. I know I ve 
                  travelled, because I m dizzy and I 
                  want to throw up. But I don t remember 
                  crossing the bits in between.

She meets his eyes. Locks on. 

                                  ZOE
                You tell me. How do you think we got 
                  here? What happened?

She s offering him an opening, a chance to say something that s 
been left unspoken. There s a certain hunger in her expression. 
But whatever it is, Luther can t face it. He looks away -

- to Zoe s disappointment. Again. She sighs, silently.

                                  ZOE
                  Okay. You re the reason. Youare. You 
                  left.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 42.


                                    LUTHER
                I m here. Right now. Look at me. I m 
                  here.

                                  ZOE
                  Part of you. But never all. Because 
                you care more about the dead than the 
                  living. That s where your heart is. 

                                    LUTHER
                  That s not true.

                                  ZOE
                All those years spent up to your neck 
                in malignancy. All those months 
                  looking for Henry Madsen. All those 
                  months that came after. You were just - 
                  gone. And you weren t coming back. Not 
                my you. Not my John. 

                                    LUTHER
                And him - ?

                                  ZOE
                  When he s with me, he s with me. 

                                    LUTHER
                Is that all it takes?

Painful beat. She doesn t rise to it.

                                    LUTHER
                Do you love him?

                                  ZOE
                  Yes. I m sorry.

                                    LUTHER
                And me?

                                  ZOE
                  Always. But not like that. Not any 
                  more. I know it s a cruel thing to 
                  hear - but you need to accept this, 
                  John. If you love me, you need to 
                  accept it.

                                    LUTHER
                  I don t know how to do that. 

Before she can answer, the door breaks open - and TWO SECURITY 
GUARDS spill in - Luther stands, backing away, badgingthem.

                                    LUTHER
                  Police! Police!         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 43.


EXT. FORD AND VARGAS - DAY 4 - 09.586868

Luther is ejected onto the street - almost into the arms of 
Ripley - who graciously pretends not to notice anything amiss. 
Luther takes a moment to straighten himself. Then they walk.

                                    LUTHER
                  How dyou know I d be here?

                                    RIPLEY
                  Your phone was off. DIReed said:  try 
                the wife.  

                                    LUTHER
                So is it good news? Good news wins a 
                  prize. 

                                    RIPLEY
                  I don t know if it s good news.

                                    LUTHER
                  See, that was a test. News is neither 
                  good nor bad. So -

                                    RIPLEY
                So, the morally neutral news is - 
                  ballistics came back on the bullets 
                  fired at the Morgan house. 

                                    LUTHER
                  And?

                                    RIPLEY
                  They were 9mmParabellum.Designed for 
                  ultra-compact weapons. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Excellent work, Sergeant Ripley! 

They head for Ripley's car. 

INT. FORD AND VARGAS, ZOE S OFFICE - DAY 4 - 09.596969

  Rattled, Zoe opens a drawer. Hesitates. Finds a LEATHER TOBACCO 
POUCH and a LIGHTER. Struggles with herself.

                                  ZOE
                Sod it. 

She takes the pouch and lighter. Exits.

EXT. FORD AND VARGAS, SMOKING AREA - DAY 4 - 10.027070

Zoe, flustered, walks along the building, pouch and lighter in 
hand.

                                  ZOE
                  Raus, Raus. Mother of God.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 44.


Alice is waiting in a recess, out of view. As Zoe passes, Alice 
steps up behind her. Tucks an elbow round her NECK. Presses a 
HAT-PIN into her ear.

                                    ALICE
                  Don t look at me. 

Her voice is low, almost sexy. Lips very close to Zoe s ear.

                                  ZOE
                  Okay! Okay!

                                    ALICE
                  Shhhhh.

                                  ZOE
                        (low)
                  Okay. Okay.

                                    ALICE
                  Your husband assaulted me.

                                  ZOE
                  What?

                                    ALICE
                He touched me. Intimately. He made me 
                do things. He hurt me. Because of you.

                                  ZOE
                  What do you mean?

                                    ALICE
                As he touched me, he talked about you. 
                He told me you were dead. 

Zoe frozen - as Alice caresses her cheek with a fingernail.

                                    ALICE
                  That you d been very badly burned. 
                  Your skin was gone. Your face was 
                  gone. You d been abducted. Right off 
                the street. By a man, a very sick man. 
                He kept you alive for days. He used 
                  knives. A blowtorch. He kept pieces of 
                you for souvenirs. 
                        (very close)
                I m worried someone might want to hurt 
                you like that. 

                                  ZOE
                  Don t. Please don t. Please.

                                    ALICE
                  Shhhh. Shhhhh. Don t turn around.

And Alice slips away. Leaving Zoe in horror-struck silence.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 45.


INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 4 - 10.337171

Teller and a pacing, tormented Luther.

                                    LUTHER
                You should have let me hold her. 

                                    TELLER
                You didn t give me enough to hold her. 
                And you can t prove it was her this 
                  afternoon. Zoe didn t see her face. No 
                  CCTV. No eyewitnesses. No nothing.

                                    LUTHER
                You do know, this makes me Alice 
                  Morgan s next project? I offended her, 
                  I questioned her brilliance. Do you 
                  know what she could do? To me? To Zoe?

                                    TELLER
                  I know what you sayshe can do. I also 
                  know we can t prove what she already 
                did - and we can t detain people on 
                  suspicion of crimes yet to be 
                  committed. Be nice if we could.

                                    LUTHER
                So how do I stop her?

                                    TELLER
                  Bring her in the right way.

  A moment of angry silence. Then Luther exits.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 4 - CONTINUOUS7272

Luther and Ripley, walking fast.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Give me your wife s address.

                                    LUTHER
                  Why?

                                    RIPLEY
                  I ll stay on her. Make sure she s 
                  okay. 

Luther stops. Stands there, blinking. Taken aback.

                                    RIPLEY
                You take down Alice Morgan.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 4 - 10.367373

Luther arranges MORGAN HOUSE CRIME SCENE PHOTOS like playing 
cards. Or Tarot. Moves them round - making new pictures, new 
  combinations, new patterns. Seeing Laura. Douglas. The dog.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 46.


His head SNAPS UP as Reed enters - sanguine but a little wry. 
He s taking a break from his own case-load.

                                    LUTHER
                  Mate - I appreciate this.

Shows him a MOUSE GUN, a GLOCK26. Luther takes it - examines 
it with a lepidopterist s eye. 

                                    REED
                  Yeah, well. Its only a gun.

                                    LUTHER
                        (with distaste)
                  What do I need to know?

                                    REED
                So what you ve got, this is a Glock
                26, light weight compact pistol. 
                  Weighs less than 16 ounces. Carbon 
                  steel barrel and springs, Polymer 
                  frame and components.

                                    LUTHER
                  Polymer frame. Show me that.

Reed releases the catches - then quickly dismantles the little 
gun and lays the pieces on Luther s desk. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Polymer. Plastic.

                                    REED
                  Yeah. It s light. Easy to carry.

                                    LUTHER
                And it melts.

Reed knows Luther s thought process well. He step backs. Luther 
is distracted. Mind elsewhere. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Plastic melts. Why am I thinking that?

Staring at the photos. Mother. Father. Dog. 

                                    LUTHER
                You want to make something disappear, 
                you what - you hide it? No. You know 
                  it ll be found. You can t take it with 
                you - you know you ll be searched.

He picks up the largest piece of gun. The barrel. Very small. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Plastic melts.

BACK TO LUTHER. He snatches up the pieces of gun. Exits -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 47.


INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 4 - CONTINUOUS7474

  - strides to the evidence room. Emerges carrying a BLOWTORCH -

INT. SCU, TELLER S OFFICE - DAY 4 - CONTINUOUS7575

- and hares into Teller s office. 

                                    TELLER
                   Knock knock ?

                                    LUTHER
                  Sorry?

                                    TELLER
                  Never mind. What s this?

Luther picks up a METAL WASTE BASKET, upends it over the floor. 
Places it upside down on her desk. Teller watches in disbelief. 

                                    LUTHER
                So. Her parents get one bullet to the 
                  head each. The dog gets four! Two 
                  thirds of the available rounds are 
                  spent killing a dog. Why?

                                    TELLER
                  It s a dog. They bite intruders.

                                    LUTHER
                But why the overkill? 

                                    TELLER
                  Perversity. I don t know.

                                    LUTHER
                  Four bullets to maximise the mess. To 
                  make cause of death unambiguous. 

Throws down the photo of the DEAD RETRIEVER.

                                    LUTHER
                  Because she needed to blast its head 
                  apart - if she was going to access its 
                  digestive tract. 

He DUMPS THE PIECES OF GUN on the upended waste bin 

                                    LUTHER
                She disassembles the gun, shoves the 
                  pieces, the shell casings, gloves - 
                  down the dog s gullet. Right to its 
                  stomach. And then -
                        (turns on the blow-torch)
                  - they cremate the dog. 

                                    TELLER
                All right! All right, stop!         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 48.


                                    LUTHER
                        (pulling back slightly)
                  It ll melt.

                                    TELLER
                  I have absolutely no doubt.

Luther kills the flame. Waits for Teller s answer.

                                    TELLER
                  It s not enough.

                                    LUTHER
                  Come on! The gun was in the dog! 

                                    TELLER
                  Section 8, Police and Criminal 
                  Evidence Act. A Magistrate  may issue 
                  a warrant authorizing the search of a 
                  premises provided there are reasonable 
                  grounds for believing the location 
                  contains material with substantial 
                  evidentiary value . It s my assessment 
                  that saying  the gun was in the dog  
                  will not be judged by the issuing 
                  Magistrate to have met those criteria. 

                                    LUTHER
                  It s in there. On her mantelpiece!

                                    TELLER
                  Even if that were true, there dbe no 
                  evidence that Alice Morgan touched it, 
                let alone fired it. We need more. 
                  Trace the gun, put it in her hands.

                                    LUTHER
                It won t be traceable. She doesn t 
                  leave evidence - just an evidence-
                  shaped absence.

                                    TELLER
                And everything else aside, that just 
                  infuriates you, doesn t it. 

                                    LUTHER
                She kills her mum and dad, she walks. 
                She threatens Zoe s life, we can t 
                  touch her. This is Zoe we re talking 
                  about - who sat at home with your kids 
                the night your dad died.

                                    TELLER
                So take the chilly bitch down. But 
                  slow down, calm down, find another 
                  angle.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 49.


                                    LUTHER
                  THERE IS NO OTHER ANGLE! SHE LEFT US 
                  NOTHING!

He turns - to storm out. 

                                    TELLER
                  What do you need to prove more; that 
                  Alice Morgan s guilty - or that you re 
                  right? 

  A moment. Then Luther exits -  

SCENE 76 OMITTED7676

SCENE 77 OMITTED7777

SCENE 78 OMITTED7878

SCENE 79 OMITTED7979

EXT. ALICE S PLACE, MAIN ENTRANCE - DAY 4 - 12.188080

Luther is looking down onto Alice s main entrance.

Alice steps out and walks away.

He watches her leave. Approaches the building door, takes a 
WALLET of THIEF S TOOLS from his pocket. 

SCENE 81 OMITTED8181

EXT. WALKWAY - DAY 4 - 12.208282

Alice walks. Turns left.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, HALLWAY - DAY 4 - 12.218383

Luther lets himself in. Shuts the door. Moves through to -

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - CONTINUOUS8484

8585- the living room. There s the urn. He lifts it - uncaps it - 
peeks inside. Ash. 

He sets it down. From his pocket takes a FOLDED-UP NEWSPAPER 
PAGE. Lays it on the floor, a double spread.

Then something grabs his attention.

Slowly, he approaches the DESK. Sees A NEAT PILE of LASER-
PRINTED A4.It s a quarter-inch thick. He lifts it. Sees his 
OWN FACE. Printed from the Internet.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 50.


With growing unease, he flicks through - sees BIRTH 
  CERTIFICATES for HIM and ZOE, their PARENTS - FAMILY TREES - 
  NEWSPAPER REPORTS featuring LUTHER S NAME - ZOE S DETAILS from 
the Ford and Vargas website- NEWS REPORTS featuring the 
SERIOUS CRIMEUNIT - early reports about the GUNNYSACK MAN - 
 CHILD LEAVES HORROR MESSAGE  -  GUNNYSACK FEARS GROW FOR MIA  - 
  articles on MADSEN S ARREST - pictures of MADSEN IN HOSPITAL, 
hooked up to a ventilator -

Page after page. His incredulity gives way to fear - then 
anger. 

He flings down the pages. Strides to the urn - 

EXT. WALKWAY - DAY 4 - 12.228585

Alice turns left again - fighting hard to control a smile -

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 12.228686

Luther kneels, pours some ASH from the urn onto the newspaper 
he laid out, begins searching through it. Soon he s filthy.

There s nothing. He picks up a bone fragment, snaps it. Just 
bone -

EXT. WALKWAY/ALICE S PLACE - DAY 4 - 12.238787

Alice turns left one more time. And she s back where she 
  started. She allows herself to grin and enjoy the moment. Gets 
her keys. Unlocks the door. Steps inside.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 12.238888

Luther sifts the ash. NOTHING! There s NOTHING IN HERE! 

INT. ALICE S PLACE, COMMUNAL HALLWAY - DAY 4 - 12.248989

Alice comes out of the lift and onto the landing - she puts the 
key in the lock.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 12.249090

Luther hears it! No! No! No! 

Hears the door open. Footsteps in the hall.

And now - at last! - he FINDS SOMETHING. Something SOLID in the 
ash! 

He grabs it, hurries to polish it clean BETWEEN THUMB AND 
  FOREFINGER. It s -

His WEDDING RING!

He s looking at it, stupefied, when Alice enters. She doesn t 
even pretend to be surprised.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 51.


                                    ALICE
                You can t stand it, can you - not 
                  being the cleverest person in the 
                  room? 

                                    LUTHER
                  See, what you re doing there, it s 
                  called projection - ascribing your own 
                  weaknesses to someone else.

                                    ALICE
                  I ll tell you. If you want.

                                    LUTHER
                  Tell me what?

                                    ALICE
                  Where it is - what I did with it. And 
                  how. All you have to do is ask. 
                        (Beat)
                Of course if I do that, the knowledge 
                  will be useless to you, having been 
                  come by so - feloniously. But I can 
                  feel that need to know, eating away at 
                  you. So I will tell you. All you have 
                to do - is ask.

He s tempted beyond endurance to do just that. And she s 
tempted beyond endurance to tell.

She approaches. Tentative at first.  

                                    ALICE
                Ask me.

                                    LUTHER
                Do you want me to?

                                    ALICE
                  Very much.

Long beat.

                                    LUTHER
                No. 
                        (showsher the wedding ring)
                  Stay away from Zoe.

                                    ALICE
                  Make me.

He grabs her - throws her into the wall. Holds her there. Hand 
at her throat. 

                                    LUTHER
                  Don t make me.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 52.


                                    ALICE
                  Well, you can kill me if you want. I 
                  can t imagine I d be able to stop you. 

The hand tightens on her throat. 

She doesn t fight back. Just fixes him with bright, cold eyes.

                                    ALICE
                Is this what you did to Henry Madsen?

Beat. Then Luther lets go. Steps back. A moment of reeling 
horror -

In which Alice revels.

                                    ALICE
                Do you think me a monster?

                                    LUTHER
                  You re not a monster. You re broken. 
                You don t know it s wrong to take 
                  life.

                                    ALICE
                Is it?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yes.

                                    ALICE
                  Why?

                                    LUTHER
                  Because it s all there is. So it 
                  matters. 

                                    ALICE
                We don t  matter . We are matter. Set 
                  fire to me, I burn. Bury me, I rot.
                          (pointedbeat)
                  Drop me, I fall. 

Luther surveys the room. The mess he s made - the strewn 
papers, the ash. 

                                    LUTHER
                  There s more than that.

                                    ALICE
                No. There s nothing. There is 
                  absolutely nothing.

Luther looks at the ring in the palm of his hand. Passes it 
through his fingers.

                                    LUTHER
                  You re wrong. There s love. There is 
                  love in the world.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 53.


                                    ALICE
                  Show me where. Put on that ring. Show 
                me honour and sacrifice. Show me 
                  fidelity. 

Heat between them. Perhaps not all of it anger. 

Then Luther very pointedly slips the ring onto his finger. 

                                    ALICE
                  Where are you going, in such a hurry?

                                    LUTHER
                To prove that I m right.

EXT. ALICE S PLACE - DAY 4 - 12.299191

Luther exits.

INT. ALICE S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 12.309292

Alice waits there, deep in thought. Then from her pocket she 
takes - the BURNED REMAINS OF THE GUN! A look of impish 
  satisfaction - 

She puts the pieces in the urn. Begins to refill it with ash. 
Then returns the urn to the mantel. 

She turns to the door, no Luther - nobody there to witness her 
final flourish. And satisfaction turns to frustration.

SCENE 93 OMITTED9393

EXT. MARK S PLACE - DAY 4 - 13.079494

Luther parks outside Mark s place - walks to RIPLEY S CAR. 
Squats there, as Ripley opens the window.

                                    LUTHER
                  Thanks, Justin. But you can go home 
                  now. 

                                    RIPLEY
                        (uncertain)
                You sure?

                                    LUTHER
                  Yeah. I m fine. I m good.

                                    RIPLEY
                        (worried beat)
                  Sure, okay. You sure?

                                    LUTHER
                  Very sure.

                                    RIPLEY
                  Okay.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 54.


With great reluctance, he starts the engine, pulls away. Luther 
looks at the house. Unreadable. Steeling himself.

He walks to the door -

INT. MARK S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 13.089595

The doorbell rings. Mark looks out the window. His POV: John 
Luther - filthy, unshaven, dusted in grey ash - is at the door. 

He turns to Zoe. They share a look.

EXT. MARK S PLACE - DAY 4 - 13.0895A95A

Luther keeps his finger on the doorbell. It rings and rings. 
  Relentless.

INT. MARK S PLACE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 4 - 13.0895B95B

Zoe can t take it any more. She lifts her phone. Mark puts out 
a hand to stop her. 

                                    MARK
                  He ll leave. Just let him go.

                                  ZOE
                No. Sod him. He doesn t get to do 
                  this.

She dials. Nine...nine...nine

                                  ZOE
                  Police?...Look, I hate to do this, but 
                  it s my ex-husband...I don t 
                  know...you just need to come...

In the background, the bell rings...and rings...and rings. 

Mark looks at Zoe with disquiet - he doesn t like doing this - 
it doesn t feel right.

EXT. MARK S PLACE - DAY 4 - 13.089696

The door opens. Mark steps out. 

                                    LUTHER
                Hi. Mark, right?

                                    MARK
                  It s Mark, yeah. You need to leave 
                  John. I called the police.

Luther laughs at that.

                                    MARK
                  This is mad. What do you want?

                                    LUTHER
                  I just, I need to speak to Zoe.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 55.


                                    MARK
                  That s not going to happen. Not today. 
                You need to go.

                                    LUTHER
                  Okay, I can see that. But here s the 
                  thing - I need to speak to her. I 
                  really do.   

                                    MARK
                  Give her some time. Then call her, 
                  okay? But she ll need time, a few 
                  days.

                                    LUTHER
                One minute. I know I ve got no right 
                to ask. But just one minute.

                                    MARK
                No. You need to go. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I can t. 

                                    MARK
                        (shoves him)
                  Leave her alone. Just leave her.

Luther stumbles. Steps forward again.

                                    LUTHER
                  Seriously.

Mark hits him. Luther falls. Then stands, grabs Mark - throws 
him with back-breaking force into a parked car.

Which is when TWO POLICE CARS pull up. FOUR UNIFORMS emerge. 

                                    LUTHER
                Oh, come on.

The FIRST OFFICER takes Luther s elbow. Luther shakes him off. 
The officer grabs him again. Luther shakes him off, more 
  aggressively. 

                                    LUTHER
                  I just need to speak to my wife. All I 
                  want to do is speak to my wife.

Shaking them off becomes resisting - resisting becomes a 
scuffle - then he disengages - backs away - holds up his hands - 

                                    LUTHER
                  Whoah!All right! I m done! I m done!


But they grab him - manhandle him - probably with excessive 
force, to the car.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 56.


Zoe is at the window, watching.

Luther allows himself to be taken - he s humbled - beaten - 
  compliant - 

SCENE 97 OMITTED9797

EXT. MARK S PLACE, EXT./INT. POLICE CAR - DAY 4 - 13.149898

Zoe emerges. Tentative, upset. One of the officers is about to 
slam the car door.

                                  ZOE
                  Wait! Please! 

The officer hesitates. Leaves the door open. Luther is disabled 
by the beating and the CSSpray. Hands cuffed in front of him.

                                  ZOE
                Oh, look what they did to you.

He grins through blood and chemical tears. A moment.

                                    LUTHER
                  I just came to tell you something.

                                  ZOE
                To tell me what?

                                    LUTHER
                  That - y know.It s okay. You need to 
                be where you need to be. That s good. 
                  I love you. And I m sorry.

                                  ZOE
                        (emotional)
                  Don t be sorry. Don t be sorry.

The police officer has waited long enough. 

Zoe stands. Steps back. The door is slammed. Police cars pull 
away. As Zoe stands there, watching. 

  Ripleyat the kerb, handkerchief pressed to his bloody nose.

  EXT./INT. POLICE CAR - DAY 4 - 13.159999

Luther in the back of the car. Calm now. Watching London go 
past. He smiles to himself. Produces his phone. Dials.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDORS - DAY 4 - 13.15100100

Alice strides happily through what looks like a hospital. 
  Sprightly and carefree, she answers her phone.

                                    ALICE
                  Hello.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 1Page 57.


  EXT./INT. POLICE CAR - DAY 4 - 13.15100A100A

Luther on the phone.

                                    LUTHER
                You might be clever, Alice. But you re 
                  wrong. So you lose.

He hangs up before she can speak. Pockets the phone. Sits 
there. 

  Helpless. Vanquished. And triumphant.

INT. HOSPITAL, O/SMADSEN S ROOM - DAY 4 - 13.16101101

Alice smiles as she pockets her phone. She walks on, just a 
little further. Then stops. Peers, cat-like, through a SMALL 
WINDOW. 

Sees: HENRY MADSEN on a LIFE SUPPORT MACHINE.Hissing. 
  Breathing - Hissing. Breathing. Hissing -

She s interrupted as a POLICE OFFICER enters, holding the fresh 
coffee he s just got himself. Gives her a warning look.

Alice moves on. Feet silent on the hospital linoleum.

Smiling privately as she goes.

                                                                      END OF EPISODE