                        SCREENPLAY FORMAT FOR TV SHOWS


                                      "Episode Title"


                                        Written by


                                      Name of Writer
























Name (of company, if applicable)Name of agent

Email Addressnumber of agent
Phone Numberdraft # if for spec.EXT. CARRODUS HOUSE - DAY 14 - 07.4711

A BELGRAVIA MANSION. At the kerb - a LARGE VAN marked 
COOPERVILLE INTERNATIONAL FINE ART MOVERS. 

TWO REMOVAL MEN in COOPERVILLE POLO-SHIRTS are nailing a 
PAINTING into a CRATE.  

Job done, they hoist it and carry it to the van.

The owner of this house, JAMES CARRODUS watches the last 
painting leave from his balcony. Satisfied. Job done.

He turns and enters the house.

OMITTED: SCENES 2 & 3 INC.2/32/3

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE - DAY 14 - CONTINUOUS44

..in to a PALATIAL, CAVERNOUSLY EMPTY ROOM. Carrodus shuts the 
door. It s very empty in here. 

                                  CARRODUS
                      (calls)
                How you doing in there?

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, BATHROOM - DAY 14 - 07.4755

JESSICA CARRODUS is clutching her stomach, looking queasy. 

She eats a number of anti-diarrhea tablets, washes them down 
with copious amounts of water. Yeuch. 

                                    JESSICA
                I ll be fine. Did they go?

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, HALLWAY - DAY 14 - 07.4766

                                  CARRODUS
                All gone. 

Jessica exits the bathroom and meets him. A moment between 
them. This is a big day. Excitement in the air.

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 07.4977

Jessica and Carrodus. Their LUGGAGE. An echoing room.

                                  CARRODUS
                You sure you ve got the passports?

                                    JESSICA
                      (pats pocket)
                I ve got the passports.

                                  CARRODUS
                Show me the passports.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 2.


Rolls her eyes - shows him the passports. He relaxes. She 
smiles. Kisses him. It starts fondly - becomes passionate.

                                    JESSICA
                One last time? Say goodbye to the 
                house?

He grins through the kiss. Meaning yes. Undoes her top button.

EXT. CARRODUS HOUSE - DAY 14 - 07.4988

A smaller MOVING VAN pulls up, same livery as the COOPERVILLE 
van. THREE REMOVAL STAFF ALSO in COOPERVILLE POLO-SHIRTS, 
sunglasses and baseball hats. Two men, one woman. 

They re not removal men. It s DANIEL SUGARMAN, EVANGELINE NIXON 
and TOM MEYER...and they re very bad people. 

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 07.4999

Carrodus disengages from Jessica, goes to the window. Sees the 
THREE  REMOVAL MEN  walking towards the house. 

Meyer gives him a JAUNTY WAVE. Carrodus waves back, turns to 
Jessica, laughing ruefully  - 

                                  CARRODUS
                I don t believe it. 

The doorbell rings. 

                                    JESSICA
                Did you give them a tip? Maybe they 
                just want a tip.

                                  CARRODUS
                I gave them a tip. This is a different 
                lot.

Jessica re-buttons, giggling as Carrodus walks to the door.

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, HALLWAY - DAY 14 - 07.501010

Carrodus opens the door. Meyer smiles a greeting. 

- THEN PRODUCES A COSH AND BURSTS IN, SHOUTING.

                                  MEYER
                On the FLOOR! ON THE FLOOR NOW! 

Carrodus is no coward. He fights back - but the attack comes 
from an unexpected direction - Evangeline hits him with the 
BUTT OF A GUN -  

Then calmly walks into the living room and pulls the GUN on the 
terrified Jessica.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 3.


Meyer shoves Carrodus into the living room, dishevelled, a line 
of blood running down his temple. 

Finally, Sugarman enters. 

What little of his face that can be seen under his hat and 
sunglasses is COVERED WITH A BRUTAL, ELABORATE TATTOO: a 
Polynesian style moku. It makes him terrifying, monstrous.

                                  SUGARMAN
                James Carrodus. Dealer in fine art. 
                Quite the reputation - but not above 
                the odd privately brokered deal, 
                selling fakes to Russian billionaires 
                who don t know better. This cash was 
                  liquefied in the form of eighteen cut 
                diamonds of outstanding quality. 
                Because that s the best way to carry 
                serious wealth. 

Carrodus swallows. Nods.

                                  SUGARMAN (cont d)
                You re off to start a new life in Rio 
                with Jessica, here. Your lovely new 
                wife. The limo arrives in, what? 
                Fifteen minutes? 

                                  CARRODUS
                Ten.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You can both be in that limo. All you 
                need to do is give me those eighteen 
                  diamonds.

Jessica gives Carrodus an ABSOLUTELY TERRIFIED GLANCE. He 
swallows. Can hardly bear to say the words.

                                  CARRODUS
                I don t have them. 

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 1410A10A

Montage of suitcases being cut apart.

SCENE 11 OMITTED1111

INT. CARRODUS HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 08.101212

CARRODUS AND JESSICA are handcuffed with cable ties. Meyer 
looks up from the final, eviscerated suitcase. Shakes his head.

                                  MEYER
                Nothing.

                                  CARRODUS
                I sent them ahead. Courier.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 4.


                                  SUGARMAN
                Now, see. I don t believe that. But 
                you know what? I don t care. So here s 
                what we do. You ve got two hours. You 
                go get them. Wherever they are.

                                  CARRODUS
                That can t be done. It just can t. I m 
                sorry. I sent them via a secure route.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You go get me that money, or I m going 
                to start slicing bits off your wife.

Reaches into his pocket. Produces pliers. 

                                  CARRODUS
                All right! All right! I ll try!

                                  SUGARMAN
                Hmmm. Try not. Do, or do not. There is 
                no try.

                                  MEYER
                You want me to go with?

                                  SUGARMAN
                And let everyone see your face? What 
                an excellent idea. Maybe wear a name-
                tag, too? 
                      (to Carrodus)
                In two hours, let s call it 10:15, 
                I ve got eighteen diamonds in my 
                hands. Or we start cutting lovely 
                Jessica. At this point, you ll be 
                asking - is he bluffing? So you ll 
                  appreciate, it s in my interest to 
                prove that I m not.
                      (opens the PLIERS)
                  Apologies in advance, Jessica.

On Carrodus s face - and Meyer s face - appalled - as 
Evangeline GRABS JESSICA - Jessica struggles - and SUGARMAN 
STEPS FORWARD - 

INT. SHORT LET APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 08.161313

Bill Winingham, in pyjamas, sitting on a pull-out bed, picks up 
the phone. Sees the name JAMES CARRODUS. A moment of alarm, 
then he answers.

                                  WININGHAM
                James? What s wrong?

EXT. CARRODUS HOUSE - DAY 14 - 08.161414

Carrodus in a panic as he hurries away.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 5.


                                  CARRODUS
                Bill, where the hell are you? You re 
                not at the office, you re not -

INTERCUT WININGHAM and CARRODUS

                                  WININGHAM
                What s the matter?

                                  CARRODUS
                You know policemen -  

Winingham pauses.

                                  CARRODUS (cont d)
                For God s sake Bill, I need the name 
                of a copper I can trust, and I need it 
                NOW - 

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 14 - 08.331515

Luther roots around in his bottom drawer. Until he finds A 
FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH OF ZOE. He smiles, sets it down on the desk, 
picks it up again, blows dust from it. Sets it down. Then turns 
to some paperwork on GRAHAM SHAND.

INT. MARK S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 08.34 (FORMERLY SC. 11)15A15A

Zoe and Mark. He s dressed, she s not. There s evidence that 
someone slept on the sofa the previous night. He s got an 
OVERNIGHT BAG at his feet. He s holding her hands. 

                                  MARK
                I do understand. He s your husband.

                                  ZOE
                No. No, he s not.

                                  MARK
                Just let me say it - let me get it 
                out, then it s said and done. Because 
                I m not going to have this 
                  conversation again. So I need to say 
                it.
                      (she nods)
                So that s why I m going away for a day 
                or two. To give you room to think. 

                                  ZOE
                There s nothing to think about.

                                  MARK
                Yes there is. If you ve decided to 
                stay with me - there ll be no 
                  recriminations. No blame, no tantrums. 
                We pick up where we left off, and we 
                carry on.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 6.


                                  ZOE
                But -?

                                  MARK
                But you never see him again. I mean 
                not ever. No phone calls. No emails. 
                Nothing.

                                  ZOE
                That s pitiless.

                                  MARK
                It s necessary - for me. Because I 
                can t have you doing this to me again. 
                I can t. 

Zoe can t meet his eyes. Mark picks up his bag and exits.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - DAY 14 - 08.3415B15B

Luther is still at the paperwork. He looks up - at a COMMOTION 
ON THE BULLPEN. He stands -

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 08.341616

He joins Ripley, who s standing, too. As JAMES CARRODUS walks 
on to the unit, accompanied by a uniformed officer. 
Dishevelled, shocked. 

Ripley and Luther approach. 

                                  LUTHER
                Sir?

Carrodus blinks, back to reality. 

                                  CARRODUS
                Ian Reed? I need to see Ian Reed.

                                  LUTHER
                I m afraid DCI Reed is elsewhere. 
                      (off Carrodus s bewildered 
                          hesitation)
                I m DCI John Luther, I share an office 
                with Reed, this is DS Justin Ripley. 
                How can we help?

Carrodus gives Ripley a SMALL COTTON PACKAGE - a handkerchief. 
Once white. Now stained red. Ripley takes it. Opens it. 
Something red inside.

                                  CARRODUS
                It s her tongue.

Out on Ripley s horror - as, instinctively, he nearly drops the 
bloody rag.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 7.


INT. FARMILOES, FIRST FLOOR OFFICE - DAY 14 - 08.551717

Sugarman, Meyer and Evangeline enter the SAFEHOUSE, shoving 
Jessica. She has a PILLOWCASE over her head. Blood-stained 
round the mouth. She can t speak. She huddles in the corner. 
Hugs her knees. Terrified. Hands cabled-tied.

On the table, Sugarman dumps a LARGE FORMAT MAP OF LONDON 
(opened to show WESTFIELD, SHEPHERD S BUSH).

                                  MEYER
                You sure you want to play it this way, 
                Dan? It s pretty hard-core. The police 
                get involved. I mean, kidnap, it s - 

Meyer shuts up under Sugarman s STILL, ICY GAZE.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Did you just use my name in front of 
                the victim...Tom?

ON MEYER: suspecting he s just condemned Jessica to death. 

Then Sugarman as he rolls his eyes. Produces a pack of BABY 
WIPES - and begins to clean the FAKE TATTOO from his face.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 14 - 09.011818

Luther and Carrodus - who s a wreck.

                                  LUTHER
                James, the fact of it is - most 
                  kidnappings never come to our 
                  attention. When loved ones are at 
                risk, people tend to pay up pretty 
                fast. 

                                  CARRODUS
                You think I don t want to do that? You 
                think I don t want to just give them 
                what they asked for and get my wife 
                back? Do you think that?

                                  LUTHER
                I just need to understand what s 
                  happening.

                                  CARRODUS
                I came to you because I haven t got 
                what they want - and I ve got no way 
                of getting it.

Luther is careful not to react. Waits for the rest of it. 

                                  CARRODUS (cont d)
                Diamonds are portable. No serial 
                numbers, no provenance. But they do 
                show up on baggage X-rays.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 8.


                                  LUTHER
                What are you saying?

                                  CARRODUS
                Jessica swallowed them. The diamonds 
                are inside her. Right now. If I d ve 
                told them that, they d have cut her 
                open on the spot.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN / EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY 14 - 09.081919

Luther and Teller are gathered. Reed enters, flustered, still 
wearing his coat. 

                                  REED
                Sorry.

Luther hands a MUG-SHOT to him. It shows -

                                  REED (cont d)
                Yeah, that s Bill Winingham.

                                  TELLER
                He sent Carrodus directly to you. 

                                  REED
                Yeah?

                                  TELLER
                How well do you know him?

                                  REED
                Pretty well. He s a money launderer, 
                  basically. Bit of a gent, as it 
                happens. Never mixed up in any 
                  bloodshed, not to my knowledge. 

                                  LUTHER
                Thing is, though - it was Winingham 
                who procured the diamonds for Carrodus 
                in the first place. And he s the only 
                third party who knows they exist. If 
                anyone set this thing up, he s our 
                man. 

                                  REED
                But that can t be right. If he s 
                  implicated, why send the victim in 
                this direction?

                                  TELLER
                Well - if it s not Winingham, it s got 
                to be someone he mouthed off to. 

                                  REED
                I don t see it. It doesn t work.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 9.


                                  TELLER
                Either way, we need to speak to him.

                                  LUTHER
                Ripley's out there now. Turns out, 
                nobody s seen Winingham for days.

Beat. 

                                  TELLER
                So we can t find the sole lead?

                                  LUTHER
                Not in time. The kidnappers want the 
                ransom in just over an hour.

                                  TELLER
                And you think they ll make good on 
                their threat?

                                  LUTHER
                  Absolutely.

Reed winces. Luther gives him a look - you okay? Reed nods - 
yeah, I m fine.

                                  REED
                Look, Bill knows me - so do his 
                friends and family. You want me to go 
                out, see if I can round him up, see 
                what the hell s going on?

                                  TELLER
                Yeah, see if you can do that. 

Reed exits.

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                So. They won t give us what we want. 
                We can t give them what they want.

                                  LUTHER
                Not give it, no. But we could lend it 
                to them.

                                  TELLER
                Meaning?

He coaxes her towards the evidence room as they speak.

                                  LUTHER
                We visit the evidence safe.

                                  TELLER
                Don t want to hear it.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 10.


                                  LUTHER 
                These are special circumstances. 
                Normal rules don t apply. 

                                  TELLER
                Chain of evidence is like the Ten 
                  Commandments; it applies unto time and 
                all eternity. Anything in the evidence 
                safe is sacrosanct. We tamper, we risk 
                voiding active cases.

                                  LUTHER
                Only if we get found out.

                                  TELLER
                Am I actually having this 
                  conversation? Are you actually saying 
                this to me? 

                                  LUTHER
                Boss, unless we ve got some security 
                to work with, Jessica s going to die.

                                  TELLER
                If I start stealing evidence -

                                  LUTHER
                  Borrowing -

                                  TELLER
                - if I start borrowing evidence to use 
                for my own purposes -

                                  LUTHER
                It won t be out of sight. Not for a 
                second. 
                      (passes a photo of Jessica)
                One hour. 

Out on Teller at the door of the evidence room. Oh, holy shit..

INT. SCU, EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY 14 - 09.302020

Teller opens THE SAFE. Roots around inside. Takes out an 
EVIDENCE BAG. Hesitates. Am I really doing this?

She is. She closes the door, sneaks out.

INT. MARK S HOUSE, KITCHEN - DAY 14 - 09.312121

Zoe at the window. Looking out at the indifferent world. She 
dials. 

                                  ZOE
                John?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 11.


INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 09.312222

Luther answers, en route to the interview room.

                                  LUTHER
                Babe?

INTERCUT ZOE and LUTHER

                                  ZOE
                Can I see you?

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah, absolutely. Of course. I just 
                need to sort a few things out. Stuff 
                going on here.

                                  ZOE
                Okay. But I really need to see you. It 
                needs to be today.

                                  LUTHER
                Me, too. I ll call you the second I 
                can. Promise.

He hangs up. A moment of happiness. He walks on. Leaving Zoe 
staring out the window.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 14 - 09.332323

Luther enters, sets a plastic BAG on the table. It contains a 
number of DIAMONDS.

                                  CARRODUS
                Look, I appreciate the effort - but 
                these people want something very 
                  specific, eighteen diamonds of a 
                  particular size, quality and value. 

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah, well. This is the best we can 
                do. 

                                  CARRODUS
                It s not what they want - 

                                  LUTHER
                James, you need to understand, unless 
                we find a way to open channels of 
                  communication with the kidnappers, 
                they re going to kill Jessica. Not 
                  tomorrow, or the next day. 

Grabs Carrodus s wrist, points to the hour hand on his watch.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                But before this hand gets...here.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 12.


He lets go the hand. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                You deliver these diamonds. But you ll 
                include a note. It says,  give me 
                Jessica, you get the rest . 

                                  CARRODUS
                They won t go for that.

                                  LUTHER
                No, they won t. But we ll have given 
                them a good reason to keep Jessica 
                alive a bit longer - and we ll have 
                made our first contact. Once we ve 
                achieved that, we can work on the next 
                step.

Carrodus considers the diamonds.

                                  CARRODUS
                How much are these worth?

                                  LUTHER
                Dunno. Three and a half million?

Carrodus winces. Looks at his watch: the hour hand, advancing.  

EXT. SHORT LET APARTMENTS - DAY 14 - 09.402424

ESTABLISHING a MODERN BUILDING. A sign advertises SHORT LET - 
EXECUTIVE APARTMENTS. Reed walks in to the building.

INT. SHORT LET APARTMENTS, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 09.402525

Reed walks down the corridor, knocks on the door. A beat, and 
it opens - 

On BILL WININGHAM! 

Now dressed, sees Reed s furious face - oh, shit - and tries to 
slam the door. Reed kicks it open. Barges his way inside. 

INT. SHORT LET APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 09.412626

Reed advances on Winingham.

                                  WININGHAM
                It s not my fault!

A beat, then Reed s rage subsides - but the panic and the sense 
of helplessness doesn t. 

                                  REED
                Bill, how did this happen? 

                                  WININGHAM
                I don t know!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 13.


                                  REED
                Look, we all know the rules! You rob a 
                thief of stolen money, he thinks of it 
                as cost of business! He s not going to 
                the police, nobody s hurt, no 
                  innocents are involved! That s the way 
                these things have worked since I was a 
                  woodentop. But this is KIDNAPPING! 
                They took his wife! They cut out her 
                tongue!

                                  WININGHAM
                      (beat)
                Sweet Mary.

                                  REED
                So what happened?

                                  WININGHAM
                I don t know. All I know is, they were 
                supposed to call with the all-clear. 
                I ve heard nothing. 

                                  REED
                Who organised the job? 

                                  WININGHAM
                Tom.

                                  REED
                Tom who?

                                  WININGHAM
                Meyer. My nephew. He s a good kid.     

                                  REED
                So where are they now?

                                  WININGHAM
                I don t know.

                                  REED
                That s not good enough. 
                      (off Winingham's hesitancy)
                Okay, look. You need to forget about 
                the money. The money s gone. The money 
                doesn t matter. You need to tell me 
                what you know. Who did your nephew 
                recruit for the job?

                                  WININGHAM
                Some American he hooked up with over 
                there. He was at school. He s a clever 
                boy. He s a smart boy - he wouldn t - 

                                  REED
                 Some American.  That s it?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 14.


                                  WININGHAM
                I DON T KNOW WHERE THEY ARE! The 
                American said NO PHONES! NO 
                  COMMUNICATION OF ANY KIND!
                      (Beat)
                He said to maintain radio silence. It 
                was his idea that I hide out here for 
                the duration.

Reed pinches his nose. Takes a breath. 

                                  REED
                They re going to kill her, Bill. And I 
                can t be responsible for her death, 
                not because the chance to make a few 
                easy quid went wrong. I have to make 
                sure she gets through this, all right? 
                Do you understand me? Whatever it 
                takes, I have to get her through this.

                                  WININGHAM
                      (dismayed pause)
                Agreed.

                                  REED
                So I wait here until Tom makes 
                contact. Let s hope it s soon.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 09.152727

Luther and Carrodus. Waiting. Great tension. Benny and Ripley 
sit in front of screens, waiting to trace the call.

Carrodus s PHONE RINGS - and so does the CLONED MOBILE PHONE 
Luther has before him. 

A beat. Luther catches Carrodus s eye - silently counts down 
from three to one. They pick up together. 

                                  SUGARMAN (O.S.)
                Do you have it?

                                  CARRODUS
                Yes. 

                                  SUGARMAN (O.S.)
                  Westfield Shopping Centre. Central 
                Hall. Twenty minutes.

                                  CARRODUS
                Twenty minutes? I can t make that - I 
                need - 

Sugarman hangs up. Carrodus looks at Luther. This is it.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 15.


INT. WESTFIELD, CENTRAL HALL - DAY 14 - 10.352828

Lost in all the CROWDS is RIPLEY, TWO plain clothed CID and 
Luther who paces as he makes a call.

                                  LUTHER 
                      (on phone)
                You all right, mum? You left a 
                message. You need something? 

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 10.352929

Benny monitors the crowds. Teller hovers anxiously at his 
shoulder, phone at her ear.

                                  TELLER
                      (on phone)
                Well, I need you to stop calling me 
                mum, for a start.

INT. WESTFIELD, CENTRAL HALL - DAY 14 - 10.353030

Luther grins. Seems completely unaware of - 

JAMES CARRODUS arriving in the middle of the hall. Sweaty, 
anxious. Checking his watch. Is he in time?

                                  LUTHER
                You there, mum? You re breaking up a 
                little bit.

INTERCUT WESTFIELD with TELLER and BENNY AT THE SCU

                                  TELLER
                Still here. We ve got him. 

LUTHER continues to pace.

                                  LUTHER
                Okay. So what exactly do you want - 
                the ones for smelly feet? Or the ones 
                that make you look a bit taller?

BENNY leans in to his screen

                                  BENNY
                Okay. Right. Here we go, people. 
                What s this - ?

What Benny s seeing is -

A HOODIE SWAGGERING through the crowds - he SHOULDER-BARGES 
Carrodus - and in the MOMENT OF CONFUSION THAT FOLLOWS he 
shoves a PIECE OF PAPER into Carrodus s hand. Then he strides 
on, not looking back.

Carrodus is startled. He follows the hoodie with his eyes -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 16.


- as the hoodie walks away. Passing within a few feet of 
LUTHER, who continues his phone conversation.

                                  LUTHER
                You there, mum? You re breaking up a 
                little bit.

He watches through the corner of his eye as -

RIPLEY peels from his position, following the hoodie.

                                  RIPLEY
                I m there.

CARRODUS passes Luther without a glance - walks towards a FOOD 
SHOP. Buys a PASTRY. Moves on.

Only then does Luther follow. Moving through the crowds. 
Keeping 50 metres between them, maybe more. 

RIPLEY follows the HOODIE round the corner. Where he joins A 
BUNCH OF TEENAGERS. Who begin to laugh, shove each other, 
execute complex TEENAGE HANDSHAKES, joke around - in ITALIAN. 

They re tourists.

                                  RIPLEY (cont d)
                You on this bloke, Benny?

BENNY glances at a SECOND MONITOR

                                  BENNY 
                Like a wasp on a waste bin.

RIPLEY turns away, maintaining cover.

                                  RIPLEY
                Have uniform pick him up. He s no 
                  kidnapper. Just some poor sap paid 
                twenty quid to give Carrodus that 
                note.

BENNY taps in that request. 

                                  BENNY
                Wilco.

He turns his attention back to the screen which shows -

INT. WESTFIELD, DROP POINT - DAY 14 - 10.3730A30A

CARRODUS stopping near a certain REFUSE BIN. He reaches into 
his pocket. Withdraws the PLASTIC BAG containing the diamonds. 
Stands there.

Calculating. Sweat on his upper lip. 

LUTHER turns his back to avoid staring.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 17.


                                  LUTHER
                Mum, you watching this?

                                  TELLER (O.S.)
                I m watching.

                                  LUTHER
                What s he doing?

TELLER leans closer to the screen.

                                  TELLER
                Benny, what s he doing? 

                                  BENNY
                I don t know. But we don t like it.

CARRODUS is making his mysterious calculation. Muttering to 
himself under his breath.

LUTHER turns, casually, watches through the corner of his eye.

ELSEWHERE IN THE CROWD

Stand Meyer and Evangeline. They re watching Carrodus too. 

SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE CROWD 

Stands Ripley and elsewhere the CID officers. They re watching, 
too. 

Everyone s watching - 

As Carrodus AGONISES. Then BUNDLES UP THE PLASTIC BAG AND THE 
PASTRY and stuffs it into the bin. 

He walks quickly away, spine erect.

                                  BENNY (O.S.) (cont d)
                Okay, he s made the drop.

LUTHER Waits. Phone at his ear. 

RIPLEY watches the drop point.

MEYER AND EVANGELINE break away from the crowd, head for the 
bin.

                                  RIPLEY
                      (on phone)
                Okay, I ve got eyeball on two live 
                ones. One male, one female (describes 
                Meyer and Evangeline on the day)

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah, got them.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 18.


MEYER and EVANGELINE approach the bin. Meyer watches 
Evangeline s back as, keeping an eye out, she crushes an EMPTY 
JUICE CARTON - drops it in the bin - then pats her pockets - 
searches in her bag to show she s lost something - then 
casually reaches into the bin. 

Withdraws the package Carrodus left there - nods at Meyer: got 
it. 

They walk on. Evangeline checks left and right. Then checks out 
the bag. And sees -

A PASTRY. Nothing else.

                                  EVANGELINE
                Son. Of. A. Bitch.

ANGLE ON RIPLEY

                                  RIPLEY
                She s not happy. Something s wrong. 

EVANGELINE drops the pastry - hurries back to the bin - 
rummages - oblivious of curious onlookers.  

                                  MEYER
                What s wrong?

                                  EVANGELINE
                No diamonds.

                                  MEYER
                What do you mean, no diamonds?

                                  EVANGELINE
                I mean, run the bastard down. Go! Go! 

A beat, then a panicked Meyer sprints after Carrodus.

Evangeline steels herself. Produces her phone.

LUTHER races after Meyer, still on the phone.

                                  LUTHER
                Justin, if she makes that call, 
                  Jessica s dead!

RIPLEY sprints through the crowd - Evangeline sees him coming, 
turns and runs. Ripley gives chase, he catches her, bringing 
her down amidst a coffee area. He twists her wrist between her 
shoulder blades, wrestles her phone from her hand - shoves her 
face-first into the floor. Reaches into her bag, removes a 
HANDGUN.

                                  RIPLEY
                You re under arrest for possession of 
                an illegal firearm.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 19.

                                  RIPLEY (cont'd)
                You do not have to say anything, but 
                it may harm your defence if you do not 
                mention when questioned...

LUTHER races after Meyer - powering through the crowds. 

But there are TOO MANY EXITS, too many PEOPLE - too many ways 
he could have gone - and after making ONE FRUITLESS TURN AFTER 
ANOTHER, he realises it s hopeless.

                                  LUTHER
                Boss! Benny! 

BENNY leans close to the mic.

                                  BENNY
                I ve lost him, John. I m sorry. 

LUTHER Stops, breathless.

INT. FARMILOES, FIRST FLOOR OFFICE - DAY 14 - 10.393131

Jessica. Helpless. Chained to an ancient metal grill. Hood on.

EXT. BINNEY STREET - DAY 14 - 10.393232

Sugarman checks his watch. Dials a number from memory on his 
unique looking Pay-As-You-Go mobile.

EXT. BARRETT STREET, RIPLEY'S CAR - DAY 14 - 10.393333

Luther approaches, still a bit breathless. Ripley is shoving 
Evangeline into the back of the car. 

Her phone rings. Ripley grabs it, tosses it to Luther. Who 
catches it, answers.

                                  LUTHER
                      (rapidly)
                I don t know who you are. I don t know 
                where you are. You re still in control 
                here. So don t hang up.

EXT. BINNEY STREET - DAY 14 - 10.403434

                                  SUGARMAN
                 Prolong the situation. Ensure the 
                safety of the hostages. Keep things 
                calm. Foster relationships between 
                  negotiator and hostage-taker. 

INTERCUT LUTHER AND SUGARMAN

                                  LUTHER
                I know you re no amateur. I m not 
                playing you, here. Yeah, we ll trace 
                this call, of course we will.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 20.

                                  LUTHER (cont'd)
                But it ll take a few minutes to set 
                that in motion. By the time we ve done 
                it, you ll be long gone.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You ve got one minute.

                                  LUTHER
                Carrodus kept the ransom.

                                  SUGARMAN
                What?

                                  LUTHER
                Last minute calculation. The way he 
                saw it, Jessica was going to die - 
                even if he gave you the money. So why 
                give you the money?

                                  SUGARMAN
                So why involve you?

                                  LUTHER
                He wanted all the angles. He knew we d 
                know how to prolong the game. 

                                  SUGARMAN
                What did you advise him?

                                  LUTHER
                To give you half the ransom up front, 
                keep the other half as collateral 
                against Jessica s release. He seemed 
                to go for it.

                                  SUGARMAN
                So we both lost him. 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t care about him. So listen. We 
                want Jessica. That s all we want.

                                  SUGARMAN
                No it s not. You want to arrest me and 
                send me to prison.

                                  LUTHER
                Of course I want that. But it s not an 
                outcome I can expect, not from this 
                set of circumstances. So I m playing 
                for Option B. I want Jessica back 
                alive.

                                  SUGARMAN
                What s your name?

                                  LUTHER
                John.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 21.


                                  SUGARMAN
                Rank?

                                  LUTHER
                DCI. 

                                  SUGARMAN
                If you d ve lied to me, John, I d ve 
                known it. And I d have cut her throat 
                and buried her and you d never know 
                where. 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t doubt it. And you shouldn t 
                doubt that I ll get you what you want. 
                Give me three hours.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Ha!

                                  LUTHER
                I need time. I m not a magician.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Give me a number. I ll call you on it. 
                In one hour.

                                  LUTHER
                I ll need proof of life.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You won t get it. This is a game of 
                trust. Can you manage that?

Beat.

                                  LUTHER
                Okay, take this number.

WE CUT TO SUGARMAN, who finishes writing the number. Ends the 
call, removes the sim card and tosses it.

INT. ST CHRISTOPHER S PLACE - DAY 14 - 10.423535

Meyer hurrying along, in a panic. Selects a number on his 
phone: BILL. He dials. 

INT. SHORT LET APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 10.423636

Bill Winingham's phone rings. He and Reed look up, sharply.

                                  WININGHAM
                Tom?

INTERCUT WININGHAM and MEYER

                                  MEYER
                Uncle Bill, it s gone bad.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 22.


A long, nauseated look between Reed and Winingham. 

                                  WININGHAM
                What do you mean?

                                  MEYER
                No ransom. Hot and cold running 
                police.  

                                  REED
                Shit.

                                  MEYER
                They nicked Evie. Daniel s lost it. He 
                cut out that woman s tongue with a 
                pair of pliers! If I go back to him 
                  empty-handed, no diamonds, no Evie - 

Reed gestures, aggressively - I need to talk to him now.

                                  WININGHAM
                Tom, I ve got someone here needs to 
                talk to you, okay? Don t panic. He s a 
                friend.

                                  MEYER
                  A  friend ? God, Bill! Who s there?

                                  REED
                      (snatches the phone)
                Okay, Tom. You need to listen to me 
                now. Are you listening? 

                                  MEYER
                Who are you?

                                  REED
                ARE. YOU. LISTENING?

Beat.

                                  MEYER
                Yeah, yeah! I m listening. 

                                  REED
                Where are they keeping her?

                                  MEYER
                I m not telling you that. Who are you?

Reed thinks hard and fast. Reasons it through.

                                  REED
                Tom, you can still get out of this 
                with the money. Do you understand?

                                  MEYER
                No, no I don t get it.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 23.


                                  REED
                The woman. Jessica Carrodus. She has 
                the diamonds. Just get her away from 
                wherever she s being kept. Get her 
                away safely and you can have it all. 

                                  MEYER
                But Daniel s psychotic. He s off his 
                head. 

                                  REED
                Every penny of it, Tom. Five, six, 
                eight million quid? Just get her away 
                before Daniel hurts her.

                                  MEYER
                I can t do it.

                                  REED
                IF YOU DON T DO IT, HAND TO GOD I LL 
                KILL YOU MYSELF. 

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED S OFFICE - DAY 14 - 11.123737

Luther and Ripley are contemplating the monitors. They show 
Evangeline in the INTERVIEW ROOM.

Teller enters.

                                  TELLER
                  Anything?

                                  RIPLEY
                Not a word. No prints on record. No 
                nothing.

Teller kneads her forehead. Luther stares very intently at the 
PHOTOGRAPH OF JESSICA. Then at Evangeline.

                                  LUTHER
                Well, she may not have been our 
                problem up till now - but she s been 
                  somebody s. You don t start with 
                kidnap, you work up to it. Get her 
                details to Detective Munch in New 
                York. He s at the Special Victims 
                Unit.

Ripley nods, exits. Teller takes the moment. Approaches Luther.

                                  TELLER
                      (low and furious)
                 The evidence won t leave our sight 
                for a moment? 

                                  LUTHER
                We ll get it back.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 24.


                                  TELLER
                We d better, because right this second 
                I m peddling thin air like Wile E 
                Coyote. 

                                  LUTHER
                I m sorry.

She s about to say something - when they notice ZOE, lingering 
in the doorway. Embarrassed.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Boss, can you give us five minutes?

                                  TELLER
                You can have two.
                      (passing Zoe)
                How are you, good, nice to see you, 
                bye bye then. 

And she s gone. Zoe enters, tentative, shuts the door.

                                  LUTHER
                Hey, there! I can t remember the last 
                time you came in here -

                                  ZOE
                It was a long time back. I need a 
                moment with you.

                                  LUTHER
                Well, it s a bit mad round here today. 
                Can we meet somewhere, a bit later?

                                  ZOE
                Not really. 

And - with a sick, sudden lurch, it dawns on him. He looks at 
her, aghast.

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, right. I see. You re safe here. 
                Lots of people around. So I can t make 
                a scene. Are you really going to do 
                this to me - here? Now?

No answer. What can she say?

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                What do you want me to do? Beg? I ve 
                done that.

                                  ZOE
                I don t want that.

                                  LUTHER
                You want me to ask why?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 25.


                                  ZOE
                You already know why. 

                                  LUTHER
                See, you say that. But I don t seem 
                to. I m thinking really, really hard - 
                but it s just not there.

                                  ZOE
                Me and you, the last few days. It s 
                just been a way of saying goodbye 
                  properly. I think we both knew that, 
                really. Deep down. I think we knew it, 
                didn t we?

Luther stares at her - outraged - as if seeing her for the 
first time.

                                  LUTHER
                Do you have any idea what s happening 
                today? In here - to these people? 

Shows her a picture of Jessica.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Do you know who this is? Or where she 
                is, or what s happening to her? Would 
                you like to see her tongue? I ve got 
                it wrapped up in a hankie, over here 
                  somewhere. 

Beat.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Just get out.

                                  ZOE
                John -

                                  LUTHER
                GET! OUT!

He grabs a LAPTOP from his desk and throws it THROUGH THE 
WINDOW which shatters.

And suddenly, the SCU is frozen. 

Luther looms over Zoe.

Who gathers her dignity and exits. 

Luther gets himself together. Then bellows to the SCU through 
the broken window.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Clock s ticking. Back to work. 

They do.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 26.


EXT. STREET - DAY 14 - 11.1537A37A

Zoe walks, keeps herself composed. Until she finds a LOW WALL. 
She sits, digs out her leather tobacco pouch. Tries to roll one 
of the cigarettes with shaking hands. Before she can manage 
that, her face crumples. She begins to sob.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 11.15 (FORMERLY SC. 41)37B37B

Reed steps on to the SCU. He s a masterclass in CONTROLLED 
ANXIETY. He pauses to take it all in. Nobody pays him any 
attention. Which is good. It means he s not under suspicion. 

He enters the locker room -

INT. SCU, LOCKER ROOM - DAY 14 - 11.15 (FORMERLY SC. 42)37C37C

And dials.

                                  REED (ON PHONE)
                Tom? Listen, there s not much time. 
                Get her out of there. 

I/E. MEYER S CAR, FARMILOES - DAY 14 - 11.15 (FORMERLY SC. 43)37D37D

Meyer is parking outside. On the phone.

                                  MEYER
                You re not helping. Just shut up and 
                let me do this.

He hangs up. Gets out the car.

Stands there a second, surveying the ROADS. No sign of 
Sugarman. He swears to himself. Pockets his phone. Enters.

INT. SCU, LUTHER AND REED'S OFFICE - DAY 14 - 11.363838

Luther is tidying some papers on his desk. A REPAIRMAN is 
finishing taping plastic to the window. Ripley approaches - 
hangs back, uncertain.

                                  LUTHER
                You speak to Munch?

                                  RIPLEY
                      (hands him a file)
                  Evangeline Nixon. Long history of 
                  violence, extortion, suspected kidnap. 
                Married to this man,
                      (photo)
                Daniel Sugarman, 36. Even longer 
                history. Armed robbery, extortion, 
                kidnap. More than one murder.

                                  LUTHER
                That s him.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 27.


                                  RIPLEY
                No facial tattoo.

                                  LUTHER
                It s fake. You look at him, it s all 
                you re going to remember.

                                  RIPLEY
                When s he due to call? 

                                  LUTHER
                      (checks watch)
                Four minutes. 

Reed enters, looking grim.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Bill Winingham?

                                  REED
                No sign of him. 

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 11.403939

Luther, Ripley, and Benny - who has his laptop. All watching 
the clock TICK DOWN - until -

Luther s PHONE RINGS.

He nods at Benny - who hits a key. 

ANGLE ON THE LAPTOP: AUDIO RECORDING BEGINS. 

                                  LUTHER (ON PHONE)
                I m here.

EXT. PHONE BOX - DAY 14 - 11.404040

Sugarman enters the phone box.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Do you have it?

INTERCUT LUTHER AND SUGARMAN

                                  LUTHER
                Most of it.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Most of it isn t what we agreed, John. 
                Deal s off.

                                  LUTHER
                Wait! Wait! What about Jessica?

                                  SUGARMAN
                You have to get this in your head. I 
                don t care about her.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 28.

                                  SUGARMAN (cont'd)
                If I no longer believe her to be of 
                  sufficient value to you, then her 
                value to me diminishes sharply. Right 
                now, it seems to me she s verging on 
                  worthless.

                                  LUTHER
                But we ve got Evangeline. What s her 
                value?

                                  SUGARMAN
                To you, Evie s an asset of very 
                limited benefit. I know she s safe. I 
                know you can t hurt her. I know she s 
                strong and won t say a damn word about 
                me. So keep her. She s not in play, 
                here. She s just a captured piece. 

                                  LUTHER
                So what do we do?

                                  SUGARMAN
                Bring me the money. Last chance.

                                  LUTHER
                Okay - I can raise three, maybe four 
                million. But it s going to take time.

                                  SUGARMAN
                You have one more hour. Final offer. 
                Plus, here s a revised deal, you give 
                me one hundred per cent of what I 
                want, you get back one hundred per 
                cent of Jessica. Give me eighty 
                percent of what I want, you get eighty 
                per cent of Jessica. And so on. Take 
                more than an hour, you never get to 
                find out how she died or where I 
                dumped her.

Sugarman hangs up. 

Luther looks to Benny and Ripley.

                                  LUTHER
                How long?

They are already EDITING the SOUND FILE. 

                                  RIPLEY
                Two, three minutes. 

                                  LUTHER
                Make it two. 

Ripley nods - don t distract me. 

SCENES 41 - 43 OMITTED        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 29.


INT. FARMILOES, FIRST FLOOR OFFICES - DAY 14 - 11.434444

Meyer sneaks in. And there in the corner is Jessica. Handcuffed 
to an old table, her feet chained to the radiator. A pillow-
case over her head. 

He squats, removes the pillow-case. Jessica tries to scream but 
there s a bundle of bloody rag in her mouth and tape over it.

                                  MEYER
                Shhh! Shhh! Shhh! Please, please 
                Jessica! I m trying to get you out of 
                here. I m trying to get you home!

She believes him. Then she doesn t. She screams, squirms.

                                  MEYER (cont d)
                Please! I KNOW THEY RE INSIDE YOU!

She stops. Eyes wide and eloquent.

                                  MEYER (cont d)
                If I don t get you out of here, he s 
                going to cut them out. So please. 
                Please. Please. Help me, here. Help 
                me.

She nods, ardently. Meyer swears to himself and then starts 
looking round for something that will break the chain.

INT. SCU, INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 14 - 11.444545

Evangeline looks up as Luther enters. Plonks down a TAPE 
RECORDER. Looks her in the eye. 

                                  LUTHER
                We offered Daniel a straight swap. 
                Jessica for you. You want to know what 
                he said?

Hits PLAY.

                                  LUTHER (ON TAPE) (cont d)
                Wait! Wait! What about Evangeline?

                                  SUGARMAN (ON TAPE)
                Evie? You have to get this in your 
                head. I no longer believe her to be of 
                  sufficient value. Right now she s 
                verging on worthless. Keep her. Bring 
                me the money.

Luther hits STOP. Then looks into Evangeline s eyes.

                                  LUTHER
                It happens, Evangeline. People betray 
                each other all the time.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 30.

                                  LUTHER (cont'd)
                Now, I don t have the time or the 
                patience to be sorry, so this is a one-
                time offer. You tell me where Daniel s 
                staying, I ll make sure you re looked 
                after. You ve got ten seconds. After 
                that, I turn around and walk out and 
                you never see me again. 

He glances at his watch. His eyes lock with Evangeline s as -

Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Five.

                                  EVANGELINE
                I want to serve my time in the States.

                                  LUTHER
                I can arrange that.

INT. SUGARMAN S CAR (TRAVELLING) - DAY 14 - 11.454646

Sugarman at the wheel. His gun on the seat next to him. He 
presses send on a THREE DIGIT TEXT MESSAGE - 111.

INT. FARMILOES, FIRST FLOOR OFFICE - DAY 14 - 11.454747

Meyer has found a piece of machinery. He is hammering the chain 
that binds Jessica. Jessica s eyes are frantic as he hammers. 
Fails. Tries again. Almost screaming with exertion. 

He gets a TEXT MESSAGE. Curses to himself. Checks the message.

Jessica grunts a question.

                                  MEYER
                It s the burn code. 

Another grunted question.

                                  MEYER (cont d)
                It means he s coming. 

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 11.464848

Luther strides from the interview room. 

                                  RIPLEY
                It worked?

                                  LUTHER
                It worked. 

                                  RIPLEY
                So what now?

                                  LUTHER
                  Jessica s being left alone, at worst 
                she s being guarded by the third 
                  kidnapper, Tom Meyer.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 31.


They rush out the door - with Teller following close behind.

INT. SUGARMAN S CAR (TRAVELLING) - DAY 14 - 11.474949

Sugarman at the wheel. His gun on the seat next to him. 

INT. FARMILOES, FIRST FLOOR OFFICE - DAY 14 - 11.475050

Meyer is hammering at the chain. Pretty frantic now - he and 
Jessica cast FRIGHTENED GLANCES at the door, expecting Sugarman 
to arrive at any moment. 

INTERCUT SUGARMAN S APPROACH WITH MEYER S GROWING DESPERATION 

Finally, the chain buckles. Meyer can t quite believe it. One 
more heave - and it breaks. Jessica is free!

Jessica and Meyer cry out in triumph. He hugs her. She hugs him 
back. He helps her to her feet. They hobble for the door.

                                  MEYER
                Come on, Jessica. Come on, you can do 
                this. You can do it. That s it. That s 
                it -

INT. FARMILOES, BASEMENT - DAY 14 - 11.4950A50A

MEYER and JESSICA make their way through the basement...

EXT. FARMILOES - DAY 14 - CONTINUOUS5151

... and out into the sunlight - limp to Meyer s car. His PHONE 
IS RINGING. He ignores it, supporting Jessica.

They reach the car! His hands fumble with the keys. He nearly 
DROPS them. Opens the door. Helps Jessica into the BACK SEAT, 
urges her to lie down. Then gets in. 

I/E. MEYER S CAR, FARMILOES - DAY 14 - 11.505252

Meyer starts the engine - stalls it. Curses. Gets it started 
again. Pulls away. Heading for the exit and beyond it - the 
road - and safety! 

                                  MEYER
                Almost there. Almost there. Almost 
                there.

He comes closer. Closer. Closer... 

Too late! 

SUGARMAN S CAR TURNS IN. 

Both cars STOP. Face each other. Meyer s eyes meet Sugarman s. 
He sees the dead light in them. Knows there s no talking his 
way out of this one.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 32.


Meyer throws the car into reverse - backs it up - towards the 
SAFEHOUSE -

INT. DIAMOND MERCHANT - DAY 14 - 12.025353

James Carrodus enters. Approaches the desk.

                                  CARRODUS
                I have some diamonds. I wonder if I 
                might - have them valued?

I/E. RIPLEY S CAR, FARMILOES - DAY 14 - 12.105454

Ripley s car pulls up. Ripley, Luther and Teller inside. Reed s 
car pulls up behind him. 

STAY CLOSE ON LUTHER

As he gets out. His face falling. 

As he walks forward in a daze, pull back to reveal -

MEYER S CAR. 

All four doors are open. Two tyres are flat, making it look 
dead and broken. On the bonnet is a HUMAN EAR (MEYER S).

OUT ON LUTHER S DISMAY - AND SLOWLY

                                                                              FADE TO:

INT. FARMILOES, BASEMENT - DAY 14 - 12.115555

LUTHER and RIPLEY squat over JESSICA S BODY. We don t see much 
of her. Just a bloody hand, a broken watch, blood-splattered. A 
shoeless foot. We focus instead on Luther s compassion - as he 
cups his mouth with one hand.

                                  RIPLEY
                You okay?

                                  LUTHER
                No. You?

                                  RIPLEY
                No.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BASEMENT.

REED is with MEYER S BODY. Meyer lies face-down. Reed slips on 
his latex gloves. 

Looks all around. His POV: Luther and Ripley are talking. 
Teller is barking into a phone.

Reed reaches into MEYER S POCKET. Withdraws his MOBILE PHONE - 
the phone that proves Meyer and Reed were communicating with 
each other. Makes sure it s TURNED OFF. He looks around again.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 33.


Then POCKETS THE PHONE - and stands, squinting. Listening to 
the ONCOMING SIRENS of the MAJOR INCIDENT UNIT ARRIVING.

INT. FARMILOES, BASEMENT - DAY 14 - 12.205656

Police and SOCO are in evidence. Ripley has wandered away. He s 
standing there, hands in pockets. 

Teller, Reed and Luther are leaning against the wall - tired, 
weary, sorrowful. 

                                  TELLER
                What a God Almighty mess this is. 

                                  LUTHER
                She tried to run. Didn't get far. He 
                cut her open. Took what he wanted.
                      (Jesus)
                It s funny, really. They re just bits 
                of carbon. Diamonds. They make them in 
                  factories, these days. 

                                  TELLER
                So have we put it together?

                                  REED
                Best guess? Jessica sees Meyer as a 
                nice guy - her best way out of here. 
                Standard Stockholm response. She lets 
                him know about the diamonds, he 
                decides to rescue her, maybe keep the 
                money for himself. 

His voice cracks with emotion, then breaks. Worried eyes on him 
as he struggles to get himself together.

                                  REED (cont d)
                They re leaving, Sugarman comes back 
                to check on them. He turns on Meyer. 
                Tortures him until he gives up what s 
                  happening.

He glances at Luther, who s watching him intensely.

                                  TELLER
                The only definite link to all this is 
                the money launderer - Bill whassname.

                                  REED
                  Winingham.

                                  TELLER
                So track him down, throw accessory to 
                multiple murder, kidnap, extortion. In 
                the face of that, he ll give it up in 
                five minutes. 

She walks away. Luther turns to Reed.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 34.


                                  LUTHER
                You okay?

                                  REED
                Yeah - it s just. What a mess, eh? You 
                want me to track down Winingham?

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. I ll go after Sugarman.

                                  REED
                He ll vanish, John. He ll be gone.

                                  LUTHER 
                Not yet. He knows we ll be watching 
                the airport and ports. He ll go to 
                ground somewhere, lay low. You sure 
                you re okay? 

Reed doesn t look okay. He s edgy, scared, angry. Sickened. 
Luther misreads it.

                                  REED
                I m fine.

                                  LUTHER
                You don t look it.

                                  REED
                No. Bad day. Bad, bad day.

Reed shrugs - then nods, see you later. Heads to the exit. 

Ripley is on the phone.

                                  RIPLEY
                No, James Carrodus. C-A-R-R-O...that s 
                it. I m looking for any credit card 
                  activity...any calls to family or 
                  friends...

Luther watches Reed for a moment. Then he takes out his phone 
and taps in a number.

EXT. THE BARBICAN - DAY 14 - 12.2156A56A

Alice is walking along. Her phone rings. She checks the caller 
ID and her face clouds. She answers the call. Listens and then 
a hint of a smile.

                                  ALICE
                Ok.

She ends the call and walks on.

SCENE 57 OMITTED5757        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 35.


INT. SHORT LET APARTMENTS, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 13.455858

Winingham opens the door. To a tortured Ian Reed. For several 
beats, they just stand there. Staring at one another. Then 
Winingham steps aside, allowing Reed to enter.

INT. SHORT LET APARTMENT, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 13.455959

Reed enters. Sits. Physically and morally worn out. 

                                  REED
                Your nephew s dead. 
                      (off Winingham's reaction)
                Sugarman cut off his fingers and his 
                ear. Then he gutted Jessica and took 
                what was inside her. 

Winingham runs to the sink - retches.

                                  REED (cont d)
                Do you understand what I m saying?

Winingham splashes his face with cold water. Reed approaches. 
Turns him round. Holds his shoulders. Face to face.

                                  REED (cont d)
                Tom only did what he did because I 
                told him to. If I d said nothing, my 
                friends would have been there in time. 
                They d have got to Jessica. Tom would 
                be alive. I made a bad mistake, Bill. 
                I made a really, really bad mistake. 

                                  WININGHAM
                      (weeping)
                That s all right, Ian. You didn t mean 
                to. I know you didn t mean to.

                                  REED
                Now, I need you to concentrate. 
                Because I have to start clearing up 
                this mess.

Winingham sniffs and nods. Meaning  Yes . 

                                  REED (cont d)
                Does Daniel Sugarman know about me? 

Long beat.

                                  REED (cont d)
                Bill? I m not going to be angry. But 
                if I m going to help us, I need to 
                know.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 36.


                                  WININGHAM
                He said,  Does anyone else know?  I 
                told him  no . But he knew I was 
                lying. I m sorry. I m really sorry. 

                                  REED
                That s okay. It s okay. I know you had 
                no choice. It s okay. What did you 
                tell him?

                                  WININGHAM
                That I know a copper who s going to 
                smooth things over for us if we need 
                it. As long as nobody gets hurt. I 
                told him it was a deal-breaker. No 
                  bloodshed, no violence. 

                                  REED
                Did you give him my name?

                                  WININGHAM
                No. No, I didn t do that.

                                  REED
                Do you know where he is? Sugarman?

                                  WININGHAM
                No.

                                  REED
                Is there anything he asked you to do, 
                anything that might help me find him 
                before my friends do?

                                  WININGHAM
                I don t know. Not really. He did ask 
                about passports. I put him on to 
                Patrick Holguin.

                                  REED
                That s good. That s really good. That 
                could help.

                                  WININGHAM
                Will you be okay?

                                  REED
                It s not about me, Bill. I m nothing.

Long eye contact. Something sorrowful passing between them. 

                                  REED (cont d)
                Jessica Carrodus is dead. And I ve got 
                to live with that, somehow. But you 
                have to understand, this has grown. If 
                I go to prison for this, then every 
                case I ever convicted will be 
                  questioned.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 37.

                                  REED (cont d)
                All those murderers, those rapists - 
                all those predators might get out, be 
                back on the street. Whatever they do 
                after that, whoever they hurt, it ll 
                be my fault. I can t live with that. I 
                can t. 

                                  WININGHAM
                I m sorry, Ian. Do you want a drink.

Reed nods. Winingham goes to the sideboard to pour. With 
terrible sorrow - Reed gathers the wire lead of a nearby lamp. 
Then moves with lightning speed - slips the lead round 
Winingham s throat - and pulls tight. 

Winingham struggles - claws at the wire, kicks at Reed - but 
it s no good - 

                                  REED
                      (weeps)
                Me, too. I m sorry, Bill. I m sorry. 
                I m so sorry. I m so sorry. I m so 
                sorry...

EXT. ST GILES-WITHOUT-CRIPPLEGATE - DAY 14 - 13.486060

In the shadow of the HYPER-MODERNIST BARBICAN, ALICE approaches 
an ANCIENT CHURCH. She is looking forward to seeing Luther but 
hesitates in the church s force field. Then enters.

INT. ST GILES-WITHOUT-CRIPPLEGATE - DAY 14 - 13.486161

Sitting in a pew in the otherwise empty church is John Luther. 
He s toying with his wedding ring. Turning it round and round, 
round and round.

Alice s footsteps echo as she approaches. Stops. Then joins 
him.

                                  LUTHER
                Thanks for coming.

                                  ALICE
                How could I not? You sounded - 

She can t say it. She doesn t know how. 

                                  LUTHER
                  Interesting place. John Milton s 
                buried here. You know Paradise Lost?

                                  ALICE
                Very well. He wrote it to  Justify the 
                ways of God to men.  But even he 
                couldn t do it. God emerges as a 
                tyrant. Satan as a hero. Where is this 
                  leading?         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 38.


                                  LUTHER
                All those things you said. About Zoe. 
                About me. About us - all of us. 
                There s no love. Not really. At heart, 
                we re deceitful and cruel. We re just 
                matter. I saw a lot of matter today. 
                All over the place. A lot of matter. 

He faces her. Utterly defeated.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                You were right. There s nothing. 
                There s absolutely nothing. 

The scale of loss in his eyes disquiets Alice. Frightens her, 
even. She doesn t know what to say. In the end, she reaches 
out. Takes his hand. 

                                  ALICE
                You do know you hurt me very badly.

                                  LUTHER
                Don t do this to me now. No games. 
                Please.

                                  ALICE
                No games. Listen. I did what I did to 
                Henry Madsen because I wanted to help 
                you. I put my liberty at risk because 
                  I couldn t bear to see you hurt. So 
                what I did, I did for -

A long, long beat. Eye contact. 

                                  ALICE (cont d)
                - wholly unselfish reasons. 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t - 

                                  ALICE
                Yes you do. 
                      (looks to the bust of Milton)
                 The mind is its own place, and in 
                itself can make a heaven of hell, a 
                hell of heaven.  The universe isn t 
                evil, John. It s just indifferent. 
                That hasn t changed. It can t. But 
                what I did for you proved something to 
                me. Something I hadn t believed until 
                that moment. 

                                  LUTHER
                What?

A long, long moment. They move closer. Eyes locked. Closer. 

Until their lips are almost brushing -          LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 39.


                                  ALICE
                It s you who was right. There is love 
                in the world.

He s looking for something to say. But it won t come. And Alice 
waits there, terrified, trembling. 

                                  LUTHER
                Alice -

He embraces her. Wraps his arms around her. 

Her eyes close.

Then he lets go, stands. Sniffs. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Thank you. Thank you.

He strides the length of the nave. Hesitates before stepping 
outside.

He leaves his WEDDING RING in the DONATIONS TIN. And then is 
gone.

INT. SCU, BULLPEN - DAY 14 - 14.196262

Luther enters, energised.

                                  LUTHER
                Progress on Carrodus?

                                  RIPLEY
                No activity on credit cards, mobile...

                                  LUTHER
                You ll get him. Right now, I need to 
                see Evangeline s stuff.

INT. SCU, EVIDENCE ROOM - DAY 14 - 14.216363

Ripley and Luther go through EVANGELINE S STUFF - what she had 
on her when arrested. He examines it all, piece by piece - a 
London map, a half-empty pack of cigarettes, a purse.

A PASSPORT. He flicks through it. Hmmmm.

                                  LUTHER
                Fake. How quickly can we find who made 
                it? 

                                  RIPLEY
                Batches of forged passports tend to 
                have defects specific to the forger. 
                So Benny can identify the maker pretty 
                quickly, assuming it s the work of a 
                known forger. You want me to come 
                with?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 40.


                                  LUTHER
                Not yet. Stay on Carrodus - get those 
                diamonds back to evidence, save the 
                  Duchess s sanity. If I get a lead on 
                  Sugarman, I ll call you.

He exits, holding the passport.

EXT. MULTI-STOREY CARPARK - DAY 14 - 14.456464

PATRICK HOLGUIN, PASSPORT FORGER is waiting in his car, 
nervously. John Luther rounds the corner and comes up to the 
driver s window. He taps on the glass, the window goes down. 

                                  LUTHER
                Patrick, yeah?

Holguin nods.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                You can do me a passport? A decent 
                one?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Best you ll get.

                                  LUTHER
                What countries?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Depends what you want, really. New 
                  Zealand s always good. 

                                  LUTHER
                Good, good. I quite fancy that. It ll 
                be summer over there, won t it? All 
                lovely and green?

                                    HOLGUIN
                  Whatever, yeah. Most probably.

Suddenly, Luther grabs him and drags him out of the car window 
then pushes him up against the car. 

Shows him EVANGELINE S PASSPORT - and a MUGSHOT OF SUGARMAN.

                                    HOLGUIN (cont d)
                Oh, not again.

                                  LUTHER
                Too right, again. Now I don t have 
                much time so I m not going to drag 
                this out. How many fingers do I have 
                to break before - ?

                                    HOLGUIN
                He s staying at The Renaissance. Big 
                hotel.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 41.


                                  LUTHER
                How d you know that?

                                    HOLGUIN
                He wanted a total of nine passports 
                for three people.

                                  LUTHER
                So?

                                    HOLGUIN
                So nobody buys in volume like that 
                except -

                                  LUTHER
                Who?

                                    HOLGUIN
                  Terrorists and whatever. You get a lot 
                of aircrews at the Renaissance and I 
                  thought...well, I don t want anything 
                to do with any of that, thank you very 
                much.

                                  LUTHER
                So what?

                                    HOLGUIN
                So I followed him.  

                                  LUTHER
                You were going to let him pay you for 
                the passports, then grass him up?

                                    HOLGUIN
                Too right. I ve got to live in this 
                city, too. I ve got family. 

Luther laughs, releases him. Presses a FIFTY POUND NOTE into 
his fist.

                                  LUTHER
                Not even forgers are honest any more.

He walks away. Hesitates. Wait a minute. 

Turns.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                What did you mean,  Not again ?

                                    HOLGUIN
                A mate of yours was round my place, 
                twenty minutes ago. Looking for the 
                same bloke.
                      (shows him the  50)
                He gave me three of these.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 42.


Beat.

                                  LUTHER
                What mate?

EXT. MULTI-STOREY CAR PARK, LUTHER S CAR - DAY 14 - 14.466565

Luther walks to his car, dialling.

EXT. WASTELAND, GREENWICH - DAY 14 - 14.466666

Reed is standing on waste land. His phone rings. As he answers, 
we pull back to see his CAR - the OPEN BOOT - and WININGHAM'S 
BODY, blanket-wrapped. 

                                  REED
                What s up, John?

INTERCUT REED AND LUTHER

                                  LUTHER
                Don t do it.

                                  REED
                      (startled)
                Don t do what?

                                  LUTHER
                I know what you re about to do. 

                                  REED
                      (glancing at the body)
                And what am I about to do?

                                  LUTHER
                I saw your face at the crime scene. I 
                know it did something to you. I know 
                how that feels. But if you hurt 
                  Sugarman, you ll go down for it. It ll 
                finish you.

                                  REED
                Who says I m going to hurt Sugarman?

                                  LUTHER
                I spoke to the passport forger. I know 
                you re looking for him.

Okay. Okay okay okay. Reed collects his thoughts. Staring at 
the body in his boot.

                                  REED
                So?

                                  LUTHER
                So, you want two minutes alone with 
                him, fine. Break his legs. But let me 
                be there to tell you when to stop.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 43.


Reed, looking at Winingham's body. Weighing up his options.

                                  REED
                All right. Let s meet. The fountain.

                                  LUTHER
                I can be there at three o clock. 

                                  REED
                Just you. No Ripley, no Teller. Just 
                me and you.

                                  LUTHER
                No Ripley, no Teller. Just me and you. 
                Three o clock.

STILL INTERCUTTING -

As Reed hangs up, walks to his car. Sits behind the wheel. 
Thinking.

And Luther gets in to his car. Sits behind the wheel. Thinking.

Reed pulls a 9MM PISTOL from his pocket. Checks the breach. 
Exhales. Reaches a decision. Starts the engine. Pulls away.

Luther too starts the engine. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Fountain my arse.

Pulls away.

EXT. THE RENAISSANCE - DAY 14 - 15.096767

Establishing shot of the Renaissance Hotel in to which Luther s 
car pulls up. He gets out and goes into the hotel.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, RECEPTION - DAY 14 - 15.096868

THE CLOCK ON THE WALL READS: 3:09. Luther enters. Pushes past a 
queue of three FLIGHT ATTENDANTS and two TRAVELLERS to 
approaches the Concierge. Slaps down Sugarman s photo...and his 
badge.

                                  LUTHER
                No time, so no bullshit. Is this man 
                here?

EXT. THE RENAISSANCE HOTEL - DAY 14 - 15.116969

Reed s car pulls up. Reed gets out. Takes a big coat from the 
boot of his car: different clothes, different look. He 
recognises Luther s car.

                                  REED
                Oh, you lying bastard, John. You lying 
                bastard.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 44.


He stands there for a moment, undecided. Grimacing, massaging 
the back of his head. Then COMMITS.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 15.1269A69A

Luther steps into the corridor. Heads for room 343.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, RECEPTION - DAY 14 - 15.127070

Reed enters. Shows the concierge his badge. 

                                  REED
                Which room?

                                  CONCIERGE
                343.

Reed exits.  

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 15.1270A70A

Luther stops outside room 343. Thinks.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, SUGARMAN S ROOM - DAY 14 - 15.127171

Sugarman is asleep. He SITS UP at a TINY NOISE outside - grabs 
for his gun - 

Pads to the door. Listening intently.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 15.137272

All we see is - the door to THE ADJOINING ROOM softly closing -

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, ROOM ADJOINING SUGARMAN S - DAY 14 - 15.137373

Luther enters - pauses to pick up a GIDEON S BIBLE FROM A 
BEDSIDE TABLE - then makes for the door which LINKS THIS ROOM 
TO SUGARMAN S - using the keycard to OPEN IT - 

  - EVERRRRRRRR SO SLOWLY 

- he steps into -

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, SUGARMAN S ROOM - DAY 14 - CONTINUOUS7474

Sugarman s room! Sugarman turns - astonished to see Luther - 
Luther throws the bible at him - Sugarman ducks, on instinct - 
Luther advances, grabs Sugarman s gun arm - rams Sugarman into 
the door - winding him - 

Tackles him to the floor, wrestles him into a half nelson. 

                                  LUTHER
                      (struggling with Sugarman)
                Listen to me...listen...LISTEN!
                      (gets him in a choke hold)
                  Someone s coming here for you.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 45.

                                  LUTHER (cont'd)
                He ll be here soon, if he s not here 
                already. Personally, I d be happy to 
                let him do what he wants. But he s my 
                friend and I don t want to see him in 
                  prison. So if you want to live, 
                Daniel, you need to come with me. 

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 15.1374A74A

Ian Reed steps into the corridor. He produces his gun.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, SUGARMAN S ROOM - DAY 14 - 15.1374B74B

Sugarman is struggling, reaching for his fallen gun - 

Luther gives up arguing. Lifts Sugarman to his feet, throws him 
into the wall - furniture falls - Luther prepares to throw him 
through the OPEN DOOR to the adjoining room - 

Which is when the MAIN DOOR SLAMS open. 

And IAN REED ENTERS. Gun in hand.

Checks out the scene. Luther behind Sugarman, an elbow round 
his throat. 

A moment of stillness. As Reed holds them at gunpoint.

                                  LUTHER
                You kill this man, that s the end of 
                it for you. 

                                  REED
                And what are you going to do, John? 
                Arrest me?

                                  LUTHER
                That s not what I m talking about. You 
                know that.

                                  REED
                I ve known you too long, mate. I know 
                how your mind works. 

                                  LUTHER
                This isn t a play. It s not a tactic.  

                                  REED
                Do you have any idea of the lies I ve 
                told for you, over the years? For all 
                those things you did.

                                  LUTHER
                I never killed anybody.

                                  REED
                Not for lack of trying.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 46.


                                  LUTHER
                And it was you that stopped me. So 
                here I am - returning the favour. 
                Don t do this. No matter how much he s 
                earned it. 

Beat. Luther and Reed. Sugarman grinning. Reed sees the grin, 
hates it. 

His eyes flick to Luther s.

                                  REED
                What did this turd say to you? What 
                did he say about me?

                                  LUTHER
                What do you mean?

                                  REED
                WHAT DID HE SAY?

Sugarman, bleeding, looks from one to the other. And the light 
goes on in his eyes as he understands who Reed must be - the 
bent copper he heard about.

                                  SUGARMAN
                Oh. Right. I see. 
                      (to Reed)
                So you must be -

                                  REED
                Shut up. 

Sugarman grins. 

                                  SUGARMAN
                Shit. Whatever. 

Reed shoots him in the head through the cheek. Advances. Puts 
one more into his arm and one more in his heart. 

Luther scrabbles for Sugarman s fallen gun - grabs it - barrel 
first. Smears it with blood. Stands. Gun in hand.

A face-off between Luther and Reed.

                                  REED
                What did he say?

                                  LUTHER
                What do you mean?

                                  REED
                What did he say?!

                                  LUTHER
                I don t know what you mean! Throw me a 
                bone - I m lost, here! You ve lost me!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 47.


Reed needs to believe this. But he can t.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Ian, whatever this is - we can make it 
                go away. 

                                  REED
                You think?

                                  LUTHER
                I was here to make an arrest. Sugarman 
                was armed. You believed my life to be 
                in imminent danger. You took 
                  appropriate action. 

Hearing the CALM, ABSOLUTE FORGIVENESS in Luther s voice, Reed 
struggles not to weep.

                                  REED
                Don t say that.

                                  LUTHER
                Why not?

                                  REED
                You don t know what I ve done!

                                  LUTHER
                I m looking at it and I don t give a 
                toss. He s nothing.

                                  REED
                Not that! Not him! 

                                  LUTHER
                I don t care what you ve done.

                                  REED
                That s not true. 

                                  LUTHER
                It doesn t matter what it is. We ll 
                get you through it. 

                                  REED
                      (emotional)
                Don t!

                                  LUTHER
                I don t understand.

                                  REED
                I knew about the robbery, all right!?

A stunned beat.

                                  LUTHER
                What?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 48.


                                  REED
                I let it go ahead. For a percentage. 
                That s why I m here. Not for revenge. 
                To shut his mouth. All right? Now do 
                you want to help?! Now do you want to 
                make it go away?

Long, tense beat. They do their calculations.

                                  LUTHER
                Did you know about the kidnap?

                                  REED
                No.

                                  LUTHER
                Then I don t care about the rest of 
                it. We can still make this work.

                                  REED
                I don t believe you. Too many people 
                are dead. 

                                  LUTHER
                Well, we can t stand here like this 
                all day. 

                                  REED
                I didn t want any of this. I need you 
                to believe that. I tried to make it 
                right. I wanted it to be right.

                                  LUTHER
                I know. I know that.

Terrible uncertainty on Reed s face. Wanting to believe 
  Luther...longing to believe him...

                                  REED
                How can I believe you? You know how 
                much I want to, so how can I? 

                                  LUTHER
                Because you know when I m lying. And 
                right now, I m not lying.

Long beat. Then Luther holds the gun out to Reed. Barrel first. 
Leaves BLOODY FINGERPRINTS on the barrel. Warily, Reed takes it 

- but keeps his own gun on Luther.

                                  REED
                This. All this. It s not about me. If 
                I go to prison -        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 49.


                                  LUTHER
                Half the dirt you sent down gets a 
                free pass. I know the calculation. 
                I ve done it myself.

                                  REED
                So if you re lying to me - if you re 
                planning to send me down - it ll be on 
                your head. All those predators out on 
                the streets. It ll be on your head.

                                  LUTHER
                I don t care what you did. You re not 
                going to prison. 

A long moment. Reed s face begins to soften. It s going to be 
okay.

UNTIL -

THE DOOR OPENS IN THE ADJOINING ROOM! 

  Instinctively, Reed FIRES - ONCE, TWICE, THREE TIMES at the 
door.

                                  REED
                You lying bastard! I can t believe you 
                set me up!

Luther dives into the connecting room, takes cover.

                                  LUTHER
                Ian, I didn t!

Reed moves, sights Luther, turns the gun on him.

                                  REED
                LIAR!

And Luther sees - 

                                  LUTHER
                It s just the maid! It s just THE 
                MAID!

Luther grabs the cowering, terrified woman, drags her to cover. 

Reed lowers the gun. Draws a bead.

Knows he s fully committed now.

He ducks down. Searches Sugarman s body. Finds the DIAMONDS in 
a pouch round his neck. Takes them.

Sees Luther s head. Fires once. Then turns and runs.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 50.


INT. THE RENAISSANCE, ROOM ADJOINING SUGARMAN S - DAY 14 - 15.187575

Luther shows the maid his badge.

                                  LUTHER
                Did you see him? Did you see what he 
                looked like?

                                  MAID
                No! No! I didn t see him! 

Good. 

                                  LUTHER
                Wait here. Don t go into that room, 
                you ll be disturbing a crime scene. Do 
                you understand me?  

She nods.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Wait here.

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, SUGARMAN S ROOM - DAY 14 - CONTINUOUS75A75A

Luther enters. Quickly searches Sugarman s body for the 
diamonds. Not there. Finds his PHONE. Grabs that. Then runs in 
pursuit of Reed. 

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR - DAY 14 - 15.1975B75B

INTERCUT LUTHER AND REED as they run down the twisting and 
turning corridors -

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR 2 - DAY 14 - 15.207676

- so many turns, so many similar looking corridors... Till 
Luther stops, knows that Reed is gone. He dials on SUGARMAN S 
PHONE.

                                  LUTHER
                Ian. I need you to pick up. We need to 
                start talking, or this is going to 
                take us both down. Ian? 

Nothing. Luther hangs up. Curses to himself. 

He stops. Thinks. Thinks some more. Takes a breath. Takes out 
his own phone. And dials Zoe. 

INT. MARK S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - DAY 14 - 15.257777

Zoe sits nursing a bottle of wine. Her mobile phone rings. She 
picks it up, sees it s Luther. Doesn t need it. Not now. Sets 
the phone down.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 51.


INT. THE RENAISSANCE, CORRIDOR 2 - DAY 14 - 15.257878

Luther paces, on the phone.

                                  LUTHER
                Listen. No excuses. I know how I 
                behaved today. But it s been a bad 
                day, a really bad day. And I just want 
                to - I want to leave things on a 
                better note, okay? You don t need to 
                meet me, or see me. Just call me. When 
                you get a moment.
                      (hears approaching sirens)
                Whenever you can. 

He hangs up as TELLER, followed by MARTIN SCHENK walk down the 
corridor towards him. 

Luther sees Schenk, tries to cover his dismay. Shakes his hand. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                No offence, Martin, but what brings 
                you here? 

                                  SCHENK
                  According to the concierge, the 
                suspect showed a police I.D.

                                  LUTHER
                He flashed a fake badge - so what?

                                  SCHENK
                Any suggestion of officer involvement, 
                  Detective Chief Inspector, I m afraid 
                that falls within my purview.

Schenk walks on. Teller and Luther exchange a glance - can this 
day get any worse? 

INT. THE RENAISSANCE, SUGARMAN S ROOM - DAY 14 - 17.307979

Teller and Schenk look over the scene. Sugarman s body, the 
gunshot wounds. Luther hangs back.

                                  SCHENK
                And you didn t recognise the gunman?

                                  LUTHER
                No. 

A beat. Schenk and Teller look at him. Knowing something is 
amiss here. Not able to put their finger on it.

Schenk shows Luther a PHOTOFIT ON A LAPTOP. A face behind it 
that might be Ian Reed - and might be a million other people, 
too.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 52.


                                  SCHENK
                  Concierge says this is the shooter. 

                                  LUTHER
                That s about right. He was - heavier 
                round the face, maybe. But yeah. This 
                is good.

                                  TELLER
                Okay. Enough. Go and get yourself 
                checked out. Eat. Get some rest.

EXT. THE RENAISSANCE - NIGHT 14 - 17.358080

Luther walks away. Heads to his car. Dialling.

EXT. PARK - NIGHT 14 - 17.358181

Reed sits on a park bench. He drains the last of a half pint of 
vodka. Runs his fingers through his hair. 

His phone is ringing. He ignores it.

He sits back. Takes out the gun. Puts it into his mouth.

Looks at the sky. Finger on the trigger. Closes his eyes.

Can t do it.

He takes the gun away. 

                                  REED
                I m sorry. I m sorry. I m sorry. I m 
                sorry. I m sorry...

His phones rings off. Then rings again.

E/I. THE RENAISSANCE, LUTHER S CAR - NIGHT 14 - 17.358282

Luther in the car.

                                  LUTHER
                PICK UP THE PHONE! PICK UP THE PHONE! 

No answer. He hangs up. Slams the steering wheel with the heel 
of his hand. His frustrated, helpless rage.

INT. DIAMOND MERCHANT - NIGHT 14 - 18.168383

Carrodus enters again. The SAME ATTENDANT looks up. 

                                  CARRODUS
                You were valuing some diamonds for me? 
                You said to be back - 
                      (checks watch)
                About now-ish. 

Ah, yes. The Merchant nods. Steps into back of shop.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 53.


A beat. And Ripley ENTERS from back of shop. Carrying the 
diamonds. 

Carrodus doesn t even try to run. He looks almost relieved. 

Ripley steps forward, cuffs him.

                                  RIPLEY
                They re fakes, James. They re good 
                fakes, but they re fakes.
                      (turns him round, faces him)
                Evidence in a fraud trial. Best we 
                could do at short notice.

                                  CARRODUS
                Why didn t you tell me?

                                  RIPLEY
                They d have seen it in your eyes.

Long beat. Carrodus seeing the bitter irony.

                                  CARRODUS
                Jessica?

Out on Ripley's cold contempt. Unable to answer. He practically 
throws Carrodus through the door.

INT. MARK S HOUSE, LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 14 - 18.398484

Zoe is in the living room, listening to the HOUSE ANSWERPHONE.

                                  MARK (ON ANSWERPHONE)
                Zoe, listen...it's me. I'm at Heather 
                and Allan's but -- look, this is 
                silly. I'm coming home. I'm getting in 
                the car now and I'm coming home. It 
                won't take long. I'll see you soon.

The doorbell rings! She smiles -- it's Mark!  

She goes to the front door. Opens it.  And her smile falls, 
because it's not Mark. 

It's Ian Reed. 

Zoe smiles. Then her face falls. Because it s abundantly clear 
that all is far from right. Reed is a mess. 

                                  ZOE
                Ian?

                                  REED
                Can I  -?

                                  ZOE
                Yeah, yeah of course.        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 54.


He steps over the threshold. She frowns, worried. Then shuts 
the door and follows him down the hall.

INT. MARK S HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 14 - 18.398585

To the kitchen.

                                  ZOE
                Tea?

                                  REED
                        (distracted)
                Tea? Yeah, tea would be great.

                                  ZOE
                      (filling kettle)
                So what s wrong?

                                  REED
                Bad day.

                                  ZOE
                For everyone, apparently.

                                  REED
                What can you do?

                                  ZOE
                      (puts the kettle on to boil, 
                        turns to him.)
                I don t know, Ian? What can I do?

                                  REED
                I need you to phone John. Ask him 
                over.

Beat.

                                  ZOE
                Why?

                                  REED
                I just need you to do it. Please. You 
                can t tell him I m here.

                                  ZOE
                Why not?

                                  REED
                It s complicated.

                                  ZOE
                And it s my house. So what s going on?

                                  REED
                You ever had a day, you just wish it 
                would end and it never does?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 55.


                                  ZOE
                More than my share.

                                  REED
                Well, that s today. And if you do 
                this, it s going to help end it. So 
                please, please call John.

                                  ZOE
                I can t.

                                  REED
                Why not?

                                  ZOE
                Because actually, you re scaring me.

                                  REED
                I don t mean to. You know John and me 
                are friends. 

                                  ZOE
                So - call him yourself.

                                  REED
                I can t. I really can t. Things have 
                got complicated and - y know, the 
                funny thing is, I think I should ve 
                trusted him. I really think I 
                  should ve listened to what he said. 
                He d have found some way to make it 
                right. 

Baffled, scared, all Zoe can do is nod, slowly. Reassuringly. 

                                  REED (cont d)
                But he makes it difficult to trust 
                him. He tricks people. I ve seen it. I 
                see it every day. So I just need you 
                to call him. Tell him you need to 
                talk.

                                  ZOE
                And if I do that, what happens? What 
                will you do?

                                  REED
                Talk to him. But on my terms. I ve got 
                to look into his eyes and know, 
                  absolutely know, that I can trust him.

                                  ZOE
                You can trust him. He loves you.

                                  REED
                He loves you, too. You trust him?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 56.


                                  ZOE
                I don t always like him. But I never 
                stopped trusting him. Never will.

He laughs at that, bitterly, knowing she s telling the truth. 

                                  ZOE (cont d)
                Ian. I can see things aren t right. I 
                can see you re in trouble. All I can 
                do is this; tell you to trust him, 
                because he s your friend and that 
                means a great deal to him. Because I m 
                not going to call him and lie to him 
                and pretend you re not here. I m not 
                going to do that.

                                  REED
                You have to.

                                  ZOE
                No I don t.

Reed produces the gun. It s the one Luther gave him - bloody 
fingerprints on the barrel. 

                                  REED
                DO IT!

A shocked beat. Zoe backs away. Really frightened now. 

                                  REED (cont d)
                Get your phone.
                      (beat)
                GET. YOUR. PHONE!

She reaches for her bag. Hands trembling. Fumbles for her 
phone. The stuff in her bag spills all over the floor - leather 
pouch, lighter, tampons.

A moment of embarrassed intimacy between them. Almost normal 
enough to make them laugh and pretend this isn t happening.

                                  REED (cont d)
                I don t want to hurt you. I really 
                don t. It s not why I m here. All I 
                want is for you to call John. Tell him 
                you need to see him, ask him over. 

                                  ZOE
                And when he comes, will you be 
                pointing that thing at him?

                                  REED
                I might have to. Just for a bit. Just 
                so he ll sit down and hear what I ve 
                got to say. All I want is to trust 
                him.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 57.


                                  ZOE
                And if I won t?

                                  REED
                Don t make me answer that. Please, 
                just look at me, hear what I m saying. 
                Don t make me answer that question.

                                  ZOE
                Please, Ian.

                                  REED
                Just do it.

She takes a quaking breath. Looks at the phone. At Reed. At the 
phone again.

                                  ZOE
                God help me.

She dials.

INT/EXT. CAFE - NIGHT 14 - 18.438686

Luther is drinking a coffee in an empty cafe. In despair. A 
moment of hope when his phone rings and he sees that it s -

                                  LUTHER
                Zoe?

INT. MARK S HOUSE, KITCHEN - NIGHT 14 - 18.438787

Zoe meets Reed s eye, meaning - satisfied? Reed nods, minutely.

                                  ZOE
                John? John, can you hear me?

INT/EXT. CAFE - NIGHT 14 - 18.438888

Luther can hear something in her voice.

                                  LUTHER
                Yeah. Yeah, I can hear you. What s up?

INTERCUT LUTHER with ZOE AND REED

                                  ZOE
                Ian Reed is here. He s got a gun -

And PANDEMONIUM ERUPTS. Reed sprints forward, grabs the phone.

                                  REED
                NO!! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Luther hears the SUDDEN CHAOS.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 58.


                                  LUTHER
                Zoe? Zoe are you there?

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed wrenches the phone from Zoe s wrist. She cries out, falls. 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Luther hears her scream.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Zoe?!

And he s out the door, running. Battling the shoppers on Oxford 
Street as he tries to push through - 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Zoe spins away from Reed. Reaches for the KITCHEN DRAWER.

                                  REED 
                Zoe! Don t! Don t do that!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Ian, what are you doing? Leave her 
                ALONE! LEAVE HER ALONE!

                                                                              CUT TO:

Zoe s mobile lies on the kitchen floor. Luther s voice is tiny, 
lost in the midst of this chaos.

Zoe backs away from Reed, holding a kitchen knife. Reed 
advances with the gun. 

                                  REED
                Put it down. Put it down.

                                  ZOE
                HELP! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER 
                Ian, please. Stop! Leave her alone! 
                I m begging you. I m begging you. 
                Please!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  ZOE
                Call the police! Someone call the 
                police!        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 59.


                                  REED
                SHUT UP! SHUT UP! 

                                  ZOE
                FOR GOD S SAKE, Ian! JUST GO AWAY! 
                JUST GET OUT OF MY HOUSE!

In the moment of shocked silence that follows -

Reed hear s LUTHER S VOICE on Zoe s dropped mobile phone.

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Ian, this isn t you. This is NOT YOU. 
                Take a STEP BACK. This is NOT YOU! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed is distracted. Just for a moment. Zoe sees her chance. 

Makes a move -

Shocked, Reed sees Zoe LURCH FORWARD with a knife in her hand. 
Making for the door? Attacking?

He backs away, yelling - pulls the TRIGGER. 

And we SLOW. 

                                                            AND FADE TO SILENCE:

As ZOE FALLS. 

And REED BELLOWS HIS DESPAIR. 

And LUTHER CUPS HIS HANDS TO HIS MOUTH IN HELPLESS HORROR.

                                                                        AND FADE TO:

A long moment of PURE WHITE SILENCE. THEN -

                                                                      SMASH CUT TO:

PANDEMONIUM. Luther running for his car, yelling into the 
phone.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Babe? Babe, are you there? Zoe, are 
                you there? Hold on! Hold on! Oh, God, 
                hold on.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed lifts the phone.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 60.


                                  REED
                This is YOUR FAULT, JOHN! 

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                Oh, Ian. What did you do? WHAT DID YOU 
                DO?

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  REED
                This is YOUR DOING!

                                                                              CUT TO:

                                  LUTHER
                I m going to kill you. I m going to 
                rip your heart out. If you ve hurt 
                her...

He stops running. His legs just give way. He makes it to the 
car. Just. 

Leans against it, close to passing out.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Oh, God. Oh God. Oh God. I m going to 
                kill you. Oh please don t hurt her. 
                Please don t.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Reed stands there. Hangs up.

                                                                              CUT TO:

Hearing the call terminate, Luther drops the phone and, robbed 
of all his strength, seems about to finally collapse. 

Instead, he leaps behind the wheel of the car.

INT. LUTHER S CAR (TRAVELLING) - NIGHT 14 - 19.058989

Speeding towards Mark s house, on the phone, the rain coming 
down.

                                  LUTHER
                Boss! Rose! Rose! It s John! It s 
                John, please answer! Be there! be 
                there! 

INT. TELLER S CAR (TRAVELLING) - NIGHT 14 - 19.059090

Teller is driving in the rain, on the speaker-phone.

                                  TELLER
                I m here. What s wrong?        LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 61.


INTERCUT TELLER and LUTHER

Hearing her voice, he almost loses it.

                                  LUTHER
                It s Ian! I think he s hurt her, I 
                think he s really hurt her -

                                  TELLER
                Hurt who, John? Hurt who?

                                  LUTHER
                ZOE! He s hurt Zoe! Send medics, 
                please hurry, please, please hurry -

                                  TELLER
                We ll be right there.

STAY ON TELLER as she hangs up - and pulls over. She opens the 
door.

AND IAN REED GETS IN! Cold and wet, shivering. But not with 
cold. Not really. 

Teller looks mournfully into his eyes. 

                                  TELLER (cont d)
                You were right.

                                  REED
                Poor bastard.

                                  TELLER
                Poor bastard, my arse. Poor Zoe.

And with that, she s dialling. 

I/E. LUTHER S CAR, MARK S HOUSE - NIGHT 14 - 19.109191

Luther pulls up, sprints to the door, it s ajar, he runs in -

INT. MARK S HOUSE, CORRIDOR / KITCHEN - NIGHT 14 - 19.109292

- runs headfirst through the house.

                                  LUTHER
                Zoe! Zoe, babe! ZOE!!

Finally bursts into the KITCHEN. And sees her there.

A beat.

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Oh, no. Oh no oh no oh no. 

His legs weaken and go.         LUTHER by NEIL CROSS Episode 5  Page 62.


                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Oh no.

He goes to her. Dead. He kneels. Weeps. In agony. Doesn t know 
what do to. There must be something! There s always something. 
Always.

Not this time. There s nothing. Absolutely nothing.

He howls in unendurable pain. Cradles her. Brushes the hair 
from her brow. Kisses her. 

                                  LUTHER (cont d)
                Please no. Please, please, please. 
                Please don t be true. Don t be true. 
                Oh God, oh God, oh God, don t be true.

OUTSIDE - the EMERGENCY SERVICES ARRIVE, TWO SCREAMING POLICE 
CARS WITH BLUES AND TWOS. 

Only then, eviscerated by grief, does Luther notice the room.

Things have been smashed. It s not random. It s very specific. 
Paintings, photographs (the kitchen knife cleaned and returned 
to the drawer). 

And Luther SEES IT. 

He stands. 

OUTSIDE, POLICE OFFICERS RUSH TO THE HOUSE. 

Luther abides for a heartbroken moment. 

Fight? Or give in?

Give in. 

No. Fight.

He makes for the back door. 

EXT. MARK S HOUSE, BACK DOOR - NIGHT 14 - CONTINUOUS9393

And runs. And runs. And runs.


                                                                    END OF EPISODE