 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                            Episode Ten 

 

                                        By 

 

                        Howard Brenton 

                                                   Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 1 

EXT. MIAMI SEAFRONT - NIGHT 0. 2100 
 
ESTABLISHER: The camera sweeps along from the seafront: palm 
trees swaying in a stiff wind, the vestiges of a wonderful 
sunset in the sky, the lights of cars, big mansions over 
looking the seafront. 
 
CAPTION:  Miami, Florida.  
 
SOUNDTRACK: from the first series of The Sopranos. Tony 
fighting off assailants in his car. 
 
EXT. MIAMI MANSION - NIGHT 0. 2100 
 
The camera moves towards the window of a miami mansion that 
speaks of wealth. Palm trees are in the garden, the window has 
shutters, half open. There is a CCTV camera on the wall: 
 
SOUNDTRACK: the Sopranos scene continues. 
 
A man is patrolling the garden with a flash light. And 
approaching the man with the flash light from behind are three 
men. One has a sack. They slap a tape across his mouth and 
overpower him. 
 
The camera moves away from the fight and up to the window of 
the mansion... 
 
INT. MIAMI MANSION. ROOM - NIGHT 0. 2100 
 
MICHAEL KARHARIAS - a lean man with a lined, middle-aged face, 
a shaven head, hard eyes - sits watching TV. The scene from 
the Sopranos is playing loudly. 
 
The room is dimly lit. A street light makes the shadow of a 
swaying palm tree on a wall. 
 
KARHARIAS watches the DVD stone-faced. 
 
Then he suddenly starts, waits for a moment then springs out 
of the chair. But it is too late. Two men - fit, black track 
suits, Balaclavas - are throwing him back in the chair. Two 
pistols with silencers are put to his head. He glances at a 
gun with a silencer on a small table beside him. 
 
A third man - also black track-suited and masked, more stocky, 
fit but obviously older - lifts the TV control and presses the 
mute button. 
 
For a moment they are all watching the scene from Sopranos. 
American accents. 
 



 1                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 2 

                                      3RD MAN 
        What s a man like Mickey Karharias watching this 
        crap for? Can t you stand the real thing any more? 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
                          The Feds watch the house. 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
      No problem. Your minders are temporarily mindless. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
                          What do you want with me? 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
            A powerful man wishes to hire your services. 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
        Look I ve got this deal. I sit here and don t do 
                  nothing, the Feds don t prosecute me. 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
        The fee for the job will be two mill on agreement, 
                  two mill on satisfactory completion. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
                  Heavy. Who would I be working for? 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
                          You don t want to know. 
 
KARHARIAS is breathing heavily. He looks at them. He swallows. 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
                  Hell I m sick of TV. What s the job? 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
            Killing an Englishman. Just one little thing. 
 
                                      KARHARIAS 
                                    Yeah, what? 
 
                                      3RD MAN 
                        We want you to do it dead. 
 
And at once KARHARIAS is shot through the heart. 
 
TITLES 
 
INT. PIMLICO HOTEL ROOM - DAY 1. 1430 


 2                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 3 

 
A montage: CHRISTINE and TOM make love. We don t see the room, 
only the sheets of the double bed. Sheets pull and twist about 
them as if they were rolling in surf. 
 
CHRISTINE has her hair up. 
 
INT. PIMLICO HOTEL ROOM - DAY 1. 1431 
 
We see the hotel room. It s cheap. 
 
TOM s POV. He looks at details in the room: the notice of fire 
regulations - tatty at the corners - on the door, curtain 
hooks not hanging on the rail, a lamp shade that has a burn on 
it. 
 
He laughs to himself. She smiles. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        What? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            This place is sordid. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              Downscale sordid hotels are traditional for 
                                      affairs. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Is this an affair? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Don t you know I ve a brute of a husband who s 
                                name is C.I.A.? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Actually, I m married too. An older woman called 
                                        MI5. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          I ve spied on the bitch. 
 
They smile. 
 
                                        TOM 
      Oh let s live dangerously, blow a week s joint pay 
              on a Park Lane Hotel - jaccuzzi, minibar, 
                    complimentary fluffy white robes... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Well not now. The Company are probably staking out 
                    the big hotels all across town. 
 


 3                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 4 

                                        TOM 
            Really? They expecting someone big to arrive? 
 
CHRISTINE hesitates. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        Look if something s going down five should know, 
                                  so tell Zoe. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    I can t do that. Not officially. 
 
A beat. 
 
Then she puts her hands to her hair and lets it down. She 
takes a screwed up piece of paper from inside her hair. The 
holds it in the palm of her hand, not unravelling it. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
            There s... a man called Mickey Karharias. He s 
                                coming to London. 
 
She stops. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        He was an assassin. He worked in organised crime 
          in New York. He killed ooh, fifteen people at 
                                        least. 
 
She stops again, TOM waits. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        The FBI were close but could never quite get the 
            evidence to put him away. So they gave him a 
                                      pension. 
 
                                        TOM 
          The US Government gave a hit man a pension... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            It was a good deal. He lived in Miami under 
            surveillance, gambled, drank like any other good 
          citizen. It was cheaper than having him in jail. 
          Then two weeks ago he disappeared - leaving his 
        minder gagged and brain damaged in his front yard. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Isn t it still a case for the FBI? 
 



 4                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 5 

                                      CHRISTINE 
                  Well this is where it gets freaky. 
 
She unravels the piece of paper. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          This morning a secure telex was sent to me by 
            mistake. Some mix-up in the registry. It was 
          flagged  Top Secret Eyes Only.  If I show it to 
        you... there ll kind of be no going back on this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You want me to choose? 
 
She does not reply looking down at the telex. Then he takes 
it. She does not move. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
            From CIA Headquarters - eyes only Cland-ops? 
          Clandestine Operations? You ve got clearance for 
                                        this? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        No its way above my level. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          How did it come to you? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            It was delivered to my desk. A mistake. It 
                                      happens. 
 
TOM reads. 
 
                                        TOM 
                         Intercepted on Sat-Def 10... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        ... That s a listening satellite concentrating on 
                cell phone calls in the Middle East... 
 
                                        TOM 
          ... length of transmission: eleven seconds. Two 
          male voices, language Arabic. Translation reads 
        first voice:  Shark arriving London Heathrow. What 
                                news of money?  
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      Karharias is Greek for Shark. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Second voice:  The four million is in the 



 5                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 6 

                                      mountains.  
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Switzerland. 
 
                                        TOM 
        First voice:  Please advise us of the movements of 
        The British Eminence next 48 hours. Greetings from 
        Algallah.  Second voice:  God is great.  Recording 
                    of satellite interception ends. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Algallah is a small village on the outskirts of 
                                      Baghdad. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Location of first caller: Rihad Saudi Arabia. 
                          Location of second caller: 
                            (Shock as he reads...) 
            Wimbledon, London UK. Action decided: Extreme 
                        weather do not advise mice. 
 
CHRISTINE takes the telex from TOM. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        So someone with an Iraqi connection is hiring an 
          American hitman to come to London to kill... an 
              eminent man? We haven t had a sniff of this 
                                      Christine. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Of course not. 
 
She points to the last sentence. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What s extreme weather mean? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          It s code for a CIA clandestine operation, to 
              desensitise an individual on foreign soil. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Desensitise meaning kill. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (quiet) 
                                        Yeah. 
 
                                        TOM 
        And who are the mice who are not to be told about 
                                        this? 
 



 6                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 7 

                                      CHRISTINE 
                M.I.5. It s a new company joke, sorry. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Feel free. So you are telling me the CIA are 
          sending a team to stop an American assassin on 
          British soil... without breathing a word to our 
                              security services? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        I had to tell you. It s wrong you don t know. I m 
        loyal but sometimes I hate what my country does. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I know the feeling. 
 
He holds her. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Tom however you handle it... you musn t let Harry 
        know this info came from me. He d have to tell the 
              Company. And they d cut off my head at the 
                              Washington monument. 
 
Look at TOM. He takes the telex. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You ve memorised this? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Oh yes. 
 
He goes to a table. There is an ashtray, a packet of matches. 
He burns the telex. 
 
SHOT: the paper burning. 
 
EXT. PIMLICO HOTEL - DAY 1. 1500 
 
Outside the hotel entrance we see a MAN standing at a bus-stop 
reading a newspaper. TOM exits the hotel. The MAN looks up 
over his paper, eyes boring into TOM s back. 
 
TOM senses it. He does not turn around. 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - DAY 1. 1550 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                      What do you mean? Where is it? 
 
                                  MALCOLM (V.O.) 
                                        There. 
 


 7                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 8 

                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                                        Where? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 1. 1551 
 
MALCOLM and TOM. A workbench with exquisite specialised tools: 
tiny drill machines, a big magnifying glass on a stand. 
TOM is crouched over a tiny pad, a centimetre square. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Oh yes. That s a tracking device? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Nano technology is with us. The drill is: touch 
          the pad with the tip of your finger. Then touch 
          anything on the target - clothing, skin, doesn t 
                                      matter. 
 
TOM puts out a finger. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
                                      Don t... 
 
But TOM has touched the pad. Looks at his finger. He cannot 
see it. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
                                    Don t move. 
 
MALCOLM takes up a magnifying glass and a paper of fine 
tweezers. He looks at the tips of TOM s fingers. Retrieves the 
devices with the tweezers. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
                                That was close. 
 
TOM picks up what looks like a palm organizer. It displays a 
street map. 
 
                  MALCOLM (cont d) (Taking it from Tom) 
                        That s the control device. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We developed this? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                Sadly no. It s C.I.A. I got hold of it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                You mean stole? 
 




 8                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 9 

                                      MALCOLM 
                            Repayment of a favour. 
 
Wobbles his hand meaning  this is dodgy.  
 
                                        TOM 
        The mice may as well have a nibble of the cheese. 
 
                        MALCOLM (Not understanding) 
                                      Really? 
 
MALCOLM moves the nano tracker on its square away. TOM looks 
at it. 
 
                                  DANNY (V.O.) 
          The CIA are going to take out a hitman in this 
                                      country? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1555 
 
DANNY, ZOE and TOM are talking close to each other. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              And they have no intention of telling us? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Seems not. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Why haven t we picked up anything about this at 
                                  Thames House? 
 
                                        TOM 
        We re not meant to. As far as our C.I.A. Cousins 
        are concerned Karharias is an American citizen and 
                              it s their affair. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What does Harry say? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                I can t tell him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          This came from Christine Dale, didn t it? And 
          you re protecting her. What do you see in her? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Californian, bright, hard bod... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Yes thank you Danny. 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 10 

                                        TOM 
          Zoe sometimes...don t you find you want to turn 
        this job inside out? Break all the rules, just for 
                                the hell of it? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        No. But sometimes just for the hell of it I feel 
                    like shaking certain colleagues. 
 
Suddenly they realise HARRY is standing in the middle of the 
Grid looking a them. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Heated debate? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Sorry Harry we re talking about pay. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Oh pay. Hence the passion. 
 
He moves away, while giving them a hard look. They lean closer 
together. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          She shouldn t have told you, I m her official 
                                    contact now. 
 
                                  TOM (To Zoe) 
          Christine saw something way above her clearance. 
        She could never have told you Zoe, you d have had 
                                  to report it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Well surely we must anyway... 
 
                                        TOM 
        Not  til we ve got independent confirmation that 
              Karharias is in England. Christine can t be 
                          identified as the source. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            I don t like that, Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I don t like lots of things. 
 
ZOE and DANNY look at each other for a moment. DANNY breaks 
the tension. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                I found a pic of Karharias on the web. 
                              Www.glamourofcrime.com 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 11 

 
He gives TOM a laser print. 
 
CLOSE UP OF THE PRINT: MICKEY KARHARIAS, seen in the pre-
credits, is smiling broadly, raising a glass of champagne 
amongst friends. The quality is of a press flash photograph. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We ll stake out Heathrow arrivals from the States. 
                                Watch and wait. 
 
INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT. ARRIVAL HALL - DAY 2. 0900 
 
The arrival hall is very busy. 
 
POV from above: the scene through binoculars. 
 
INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT. ARRIVAL HALL. BALCONY - DAY 2. 0901 
 
DANNY is behind glass in a dim room. He is looking through 
binoculars at the scene below. A still camera, video and 
surveillance monitors are set up beside him. There is a copy 
of the photograph of KARHARIAS blue-tacked to the edge of a 
monitor. 
 
He lowers the glasses and sighs. 
 
ZOE comes into the room. She has a cardboard tray of airport 
food. She is in a bad mood. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Nothing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Spotting the proverbial needle in a haystack... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        We ve got to tell Harry. I mean, for all we know 
                    the target s the Prime Minister. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Let s trust Tom. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m not being disloyal but...maybe the thing with 
                  Christine is clouding his judgement. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Tom s been through hell with women. It s never put 
                            him off work before. 
 
And TOM comes into the room startling ZOE. 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 12 

TOM raises his binoculars and looks down at the hall. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  What s this flight coming through? 
 
                      DANNY (Raises his binoculars) 
                              Chicago. On time too. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Tom, we re having to tell all kinds of lies to 
          Harry about what we re doing. And it s been two 
                                    days now... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Hey. Hey. I spy spies. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What do you mean? 
 
                                        DANNY 
      Am I going bonkers or is there a surveillance team 
                                    down there? 
 
TOM and ZOE raise binoculars. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                    Woman, in blue, near the barrier. 
 
POV TOM S BINOCULARS: he sees the woman. He moves his view: he 
sees the MAN who stared at him outside the hotel. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The guy in the suit. I recognise him. He s stared 
                      at me. He s definitely C.I.A. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                How do you know? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        He was tailing Christine. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Hell, Tom... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                That guy with a coke s not drinking it. 
 
                                        TOM 
          They ve got a surveillance team out to receive 
                                        him. 
 
TOM goes to a camera with a very long lens. He looks through 
it. 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 13 

 
POV TOM S CAMERA: a man who looks like MICKEY KARHARIAS, 
though he is wearing large deep black sunglasses and has his 
head lowered, is coming through the arrival barrier. TOM takes 
photographs. 
 
                              TOM (O.S.) (cont d) 
                        That s got to be Karharias. 
 
GENERAL POV: 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  What do we do? 
 
                                        TOM 
          We tail him. When we know his hidey-hole we ll 
                call Harry and the cavalry can go in. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          So we will snatch him from under the C.I.A. s 
                              noses? I like that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Danny go and get the car. 
 
They turn to leave. ZOE catches DANNY s eye, concern on her 
face. 
 
INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT. ARRIVAL HALL. BALCONY - DAY 2. 0910 
 
TOM and ZOE are watching. 
 
                              DANNY (OVER RADIO) 
                    The car - the tyres are slashed. 
 
And for a moment the STARING MAN is standing, fifty feet away, 
looking at TOM. He waves and then is gone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              What do we do now? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Our C.I.A friends will be in touch. To warn us 
                                        off. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              What through Harry? 
 
                                        TOM 
          No. They are on a clandestine C.I.A. Operation. 
                      They ll do nothing officially. 
                                    (foul mood) 
                              Let s get a taxi. 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 14 

 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1200 
 
                              ZOE (To Danny. Low) 
        Listen Danny, my skin is beginning to crawl about 
            this. Are we really going to war with C.I.A. 
                    Cland-ops without telling anyone? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I don t want to bitch about this behind Tom s 
                                        back. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It s time for my liaison session with Christine 
                                        Dale. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Where you meeting? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Holborn safehouse. Danny, come with me, listen in. 
 
                              DANNY (surprised) 
                                      Really? 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT - DAY 2. 1205 
 
CHRISTINE DALE and ZOE lean over the balustrude and talk. 
CHRISTINE has her handbag with her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Nice bag. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Oh, thank you. 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT- DAY 2. 1205 
 
DANNY standing nearby, wired up and listening in to ZOE and 
CHRISTINE s conversation. 
 
                            ZOE (THROUGH PHONES) 
                                        New? 
 
                          CHRISTINE (THROUGH PHONES) 
                                    Not really. 
 
                            DANNY (enjoying this) 
                      The great art of false talk. 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT - DAY 2. 1205 
 



 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 15 

                                        ZOE 
          But very handy. And great for smuggling telexes 
                      out of the American embassy. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              Don t try and go one to one with me Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Why? Will you destroy my career, like you re 
                                destroying Tom s? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Is this... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Don t worry, the tape s developed a fault called 
                                        Danny. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                He s listening? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            He and I are getting sucked into this too. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  What s happening? What s Tom doing? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              He hasn t told you? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        No. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                At the hotel where you and Tom met... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Tom told you we met... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Oh yes he briefed us. 
 
                      CHRISTINE (does not like that) 
                                        Right. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Standing outside your hotel there was this guy. 
 
She takes photographs taken at Heathrow out of her bag. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 16 

          We observed him leading a surveillance team at 
        Heathrow this morning. They hooked onto a man whom 
                    we think was Michael Karharias. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              Well that s great. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Is it? We do have a database of C.I.A. Agents 
          active in this country. We are not total hicks. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  I know that... 
 
                              ZOE (interrupting) 
        And I can find no trace of him being one of yours. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        He s Cland-ops. His cover will be very deep. What 
                        is this, an interrogation? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            You bet. When the telex was sent to you by 
        mistake, why didn t you just turn it in to someone 
                                      senior? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I guess I love England. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Or an Englishman. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I don t have to put up with this any more, Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Oh yes you do. 
 
A look of horror from CHRISTINE. 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT - DAY 2. 1207 
 
DANNY with wire in ear. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Hey hey... 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT - DAY 2. 1207 
 
CHRISTINE and ZOE. 
 




 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 17 

                                        ZOE 
        I love this job. Getting involved in this is not 
                              going to wreck it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Little Ms Ambition are you? Does Tom know you re 
                                  leaning on me? 
 
                              ZOE (ignoring that) 
        Just give me something to confirm this story. Like 
                  the secure telex that started this. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      I can t. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Tom burnt it. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1500 
 
ZOE and DANNY and TOM. 
 
                                  TOM (to Zoe) 
        I didn t want the telex traced back to Christine. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          It s the only evidence. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Of what? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          That any of this is real. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Zoe... 
 
                                        ZOE 
              I think Christine Dale s setting you up. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            This stops. Right now. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Tell Harry! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I will. Soon. 
 
TOM moves away. 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 18 

 
                                        DANNY 
                              What s got into you? 
 
MALCOLM is coming toward DANNY. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I m afraid he s losing it over this and will drag 
                                me into trouble. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Us. Us into trouble. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              That s what I meant. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  We ll give him another day, right? 
 
                                ZOE (not happy) 
                                        OK. 
 
DANNY looks across at HARRY s office. He is watching them 
through the window. 
 
And MALCOLM is behind DANNY. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              Could I have a word? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUIT - DAY 2. 1505 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            So this thing was... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        A C.I.A. tracking device, state of the art. Can I 
                              have it back please? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            We ve not got it. Maybe someone nicked it. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            Don t say that please. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Who did you show it to? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                    Just Tom. 
 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 19 

A beat. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            No we ve not got it. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1515 
 
DANNY is sitting at his station. He looks up over his screen 
at TOM, who is alone at his desk. 
 
CLOSE ON TOM: he is staring at the photographs taken at 
Heathrow through a magnifying glass. 
 
DANNY stands abruptly and goes over to him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Malcolm told me about his latest toy. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                The nano thingy. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  He s lost it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                       Lost ? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        You ve not got it, have you? 
 
A moment s flicker between them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      No. Why? 
 
DANNY lowers his voice. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Tom... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Zoe and I have got itchy skin about this op. We re 
                acting like a clandestine op ourselves. 
 
                                        TOM 
      My skin s crawling about it too. It s a feeling we 
                        come to rely on in this job. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 20 

 
TOM smiles. But DANNY hasn t been charmed. 
 
He backs away. 
 
GO WITH DANNY as he makes his way back to his desk and sits. 
He still observes TOM. 
 
TOM stands abruptly and leaves the Grid through the pods. 
 
                              DANNY (cont d) (Low) 
                I will I won t I will I won t. I will. 
 
He stands. 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - DAY 2. 1530 
 
TOM comes out of Thames House. DANNY follows him at a 
considerable distance. 
 
MONTAGE: STREETS OF LONDON - DAY 2. 1600 
 
DANNY follows TOM past the Houses of Parliament... 
 
Down onto the North Embankment... 
 
Then he is at the Aldwych... 
 
Then in Fleet Street... 
 
EXT. FLEET STREET - DAY 2. 1630 
 
TOM is way ahead of DANNY, who is getting weary. 
 
                          DANNY (under his breath) 
                    Where the hell are we going, Tom? 
 
EXT. BRICK LANE - DAY 2. 1700 
 
CLOSE UP: of the street sign:  Brick Lane E1.  
 
The street - leather shops, curry houses, food shops - is 
busy. 
 
DANNY - a cup of coffee in his hand - watches TOM go into a 
shop:  A to Z Leather.  It s door is at the side in a recess 
from the street. 
 
DANNY leans against a wall. 
 
EXT. BRICK LANE - DAY 2. 1800 
 
DANNY waiting. 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 21 

 
TOM comes out of the shop. 
 
DANNY turns and goes into a curry house. 
 
EXT. BRICK LANE - DAY 2. 1815 
 
DANNY coming out of the curry house eating a take-away. 
 
He sees that  A to Z Leather  is being shut up by an asian 
man. He pulls a metal shutter down across the window. The door 
has bars on it. 
 
EXT. BRICK LANE. DAY 2. 1845 
 
DANNY crosses over to the shop. He goes into the recess. He 
waits until there is no one near then takes out a device - 
bright metal flashes, it s like an elaborate  wine waiter  
style corkscrew. The lock gives way and he goes into the shop 
quickly. 
 
INT. A TO Z LEATHER SHOP - DAY 2. 1900 
 
Dim light. The shop is full of bags and jackets of all kinds 
hanging from the ceiling and on shelves. 
 
He goes to a back door. He tries the handle - it opens. There 
is a small sordid room. But there is a table, its top is clear 
but for fine art pens and knives, a flat tin and powerful 
light and a large magnifying glass on a stand. 
 
DANNY opens the tin. It has an ink pad inside. 
 
He looks around the room. There is a picture of London Bridge 
on the wall. He takes it down. There is a safe behind it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Hello baby. 
 
He takes out a flashlight and looks at it closely. He puts his 
ear to it. He begins to spin the dial. 
 
INT. A TO Z LEATHER SHOP - DAY 2. 1915 
 
DANNY is still patiently spinning the dial and listening. Then 
there is a click and the safe is open. 
 
He shines his flashlight inside. 
 
He takes out a large bundle of money, a European passport and 
an envelope. 
 
He puts the passport on the desk and studies the back of it. 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 22 

 
It is made out in the name of Paul Connors. Born 24 JUL 1975 
DUBLIN The Nationality is given as Irish. And the photograph 
is of TOM. 
 
DANNY recoils. Why is TOM having a legend prepared for him? 
 
He sees something else in the safe. It is a stamp. He takes it 
out, rummages around fast - and increasingly freaked - for a 
piece of paper. He finds some tissue used to wrap up leather 
goods. He opens the tin, inks the stamp on the pad and presses 
it under the tissue paper. 
 
He turns on the desk light and looks at the paper. It is a 
passport stamp. It reads  Republic Of Slovakia . 
 
DANNY looks up. He turns off the light. 
 
EXT. BRICK LANE - DAY 2. 1445 
 
DANNY is walking along quickly. He is speaking into his 
mobile. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    No Zoe, now. At the Landlord s. 
 
He waves out at a taxi. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1500 
 
DANNY and ZOE are close together. Talking conspiratorially. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Tom s preparing a legend? Illegally? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Irish passport. With an old visa in it for 
                                      Slovakia. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  You saw this? 
 
Unseen by ZOE and DANNY, HARRY comes out of the corridor. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yes! 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Why would Tom do that? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          There s only one reason. 
 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 23 

And HARRY looms over them. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            One reason for what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The past two days there have been comings and 
                  goings and whisperings. My office. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1510 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Begin. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        There s nothing to begin... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Tom s protecting Christine Dale. 
 
ZOE closes her eyes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Why? (a beat) Well come on tell me all. 
 
EXT. PIMLICO HOTEL - DAY 2. 1515 
 
TOM passes the bus-stop. He glances at it. No one is standing 
there. 
 
INT. PIMLICO HOTEL. ROOM. - DAY 2. 1517 
 
TOM has just come into the room and is closing the door. 
CHRISTINE is in the room. Her coat is on the bed. She is 
furious. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        You briefed Zoe and Danny. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I had to, I needed back-up... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I showed you the damn telex out of some kind of 
          misguided... kind of love for your stupid little 
          country. Now I wish to God I d thrown it away. 
 



 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 24 

                                        TOM 
                  I won t let it be traced back to you. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              I don t know if I can trust you to do that. 
 
They look at each other, appalled at what they have said. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Look, I think we d better get out of here. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          We were being shadowed. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            That s part of what s driving me crazy. Why 
        haven t the company pulled me in about seeing you? 
                          Why is nothing happening? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          What s it like at work? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Everything s normal, but horrible. I feel like any 
                moment security s going to come for me. 
 
                          TOM (Tries to touch her) 
                                    Christine... 
 
                            CHRISTINE (She recoils) 
                This is going to destroy us, isn t it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      No way. 
 
A beat. She lifts her coat from the bed to leave. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1520 
 
DANNY and ZOE have  told all  and are waiting for the 
explosion. It comes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Stand up! 
 
ZOE and DANNY stand up. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        Do you know the meaning of what you have told me? 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 25 

They are taken aback. They are both about to reply but HARRY 
is in before them. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
          You have accused a respected officer, in whose 
          hands you have at times trusted your lives, of 
                                      treason. 
 
DANNY and ZOE recoil at his ferocity. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Er... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Well what s your word for it? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  I don t know. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                You don t know. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We really don t know where Tom s at anymore 
                                      Harry... 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Right this is what I am ordering...ORDERING...you 
              to do. You will discuss these ridiculous 
        accusations with no one. You will not even discuss 
        them again between yourselves. And you will have 
          nothing more to do with this case whatsoever. At 
        this moment both your futures in this Department 
        are hanging by a thread. Do I make myself clear? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Yes Harry. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Yes Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Now get out. 
 
They turn and leave, closing the door. 
 
HARRY sits very still at his desk. 
 
Then he opens a drawer. He takes out a file and places it 
before him. SHOT of the file: it is marked TOM QUINN. 
 
HARRY opens it and begins to read. 
 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 26 

INT. TOM S FLAT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2100 
 
TOM is looking at the photographs taken at Heathrow. There are 
several of the STARING MAN. He looks closely through a 
magnifying glass at a shot of KARHARIAS, dark glasses, his 
head down. He compares it to the picture DANNY pulled off the 
net. 
 
                        TOM (muttering to himself) 
            Wrong, wrong, what can be wrong about this? 
 
He stares closely at the picture again. He looks up. He has 
heard a sound. The doorbell rings. 
 
He puts the photographs away, then goes out into the hall. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT. HALLWAY - NIGHT 2. 2101 
 
He goes to the front door. He looks through the spy hole. He 
turns, surprised, considering what to do. He decides to open 
the door. The STARING MAN is standing outside. TOM steps back. 
 
                                    STARING MAN 
                                  Mr. Tom Quinn. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  And you are? 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          The name is Herb Ziegler. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Or not. 
 
ZIEGLER smiles. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                            May I talk with you? 
 
TOM stands back, ZIEGLER comes into the hall. He is carrying 
his coat. They go into the living room and he puts his coat 
down. 
 
ZIEGLER has an over-bearing, cloying charm. 
 
                                ZIEGLER (cont d) 
        Look the Company s fine about you and the lovely 
          Christine. We don t mind Romeo and Juliet affairs 
          with other services. You may let slip more than 
          she does. So carry on in hotel rooms all around 
                  London, we think it s kind of sweet. 
 



 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 27 

TOM feels like hitting him and almost does. ZIEGLER reads it 
and steps back. 
 
                                ZIEGLER (cont d) 
                        What kind of fool are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Fool for my country? 
 
ZIEGLER smiles. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                Yeah well, maybe that fits both of us. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The man whom you picked up at Heathrow? That was 
                                Mickey Karharias? 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
        You were not meant to see that. Karharias is our 
                                      concern. 
 
                                        TOM 
          A notorious assassin arriving at Heathrow is very 
                            much our concern too. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
        Walk away, Tom. This operation is off limits for 
                                        you. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Karharias is a clear and present threat to this 
                                      country. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
            If you don t let this go I am telling you: 
          Christine Dale will be jailed for leaking a Top 
                            Secret communication. 
 
                                        TOM 
          You d crucify one of your best officers to stop 
                    British Security helping you? Why? 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
          You know, scientists are developing a whole new 
          theory of reality. We live in an illusion. What 
          the world is really like is way beyond what our 
            senses tell us. And very, very frightening. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Well thanks for the science programme. 
 



 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 28 

                                      ZIEGLER 
          Let the big boys do what they ve got to do. And 
                          Christine won t get hurt. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Do I have a choice? 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                                        No. 
                              (His phone rings.) 
                          I have to take this call. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Feel free. 
 
ZIEGLER goes out of the room. TOM looks at his coat. Very 
quickly he goes to a drawer and takes out the nano tracker. He 
opens the small box, dips his fore finger onto the pad and 
touches ZIEGLER s coat inside pocket. He replaces the coat, 
looks at it hard then rearranges a sleeve. 
 
He turns away and waits, eyes flickering. Who is this man? 
What is behind this? A question comes to him... 
 
ZIEGLER comes back into the room. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                              Who s the target? 
                                      (A beat) 
                        And who s hired Karharias? 
 
A beat. Then ZIEGLER picks up his coat. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          Live the illusion, Tom. 
 
He turns and goes. 
 
TOM follows. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT. HALL - NIGHT 2. 2106 
 
ZIEGLER is letting himself out. He looks back at TOM. A dark 
look of hatred. 
 
TOM turns away... 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2107 
 




 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 29 

TOM goes to the drawer from which he took the nano tracker. He 
has the monitoring device. He turns it on. A bright spot 
blinks on a street map. 
 
He turns off the light. He goes into the hall. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT. HALL - NIGHT 2. 2107 
 
TOM takes a coat and is moving towards the door. Someone rings 
the doorbell. 
 
Very carefully TOM goes and looks at the spy hole. 
 
SHOT: HARRY seen through the spy-hole waiting outside the 
door. 
 
TOM backs away. 
 
He turns and goes into the kitchen as the doorbell rings a 
third time. He goes to a kitchen cupboard. He takes out a 
hold-all bag. He opens the back door carefully. 
 
EXT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 2. 2109 
 
HARRY leans against TOM s front door in despair. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Idiot. 
 
INT. PUB - NIGHT 2. 2230 
 
ZOE and DANNY are having a drink at a small table against a 
pub wall. There is a picture of The Tower Of London above 
their heads with a pub-style brass light over it. They have 
been drinking for a while. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              I hope to God Tom comes in from the cold. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              I don t think he will. He ll want to get to 
                                      Karharias. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I know. He s on a roll. And a place to hide if it 
                                    goes wrong. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Mysterious middle Europe... I wish I had a bolt 
                  hole. I d disappear there right now. 
 




 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 30 

                                        DANNY 
          And what would you do? Grow cabbages? Lupins? 
                                You d go potty. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Lupins would be lovely. No you re right. I m a 
                                    city girl. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Good for you. 
 
She drinks. DANNY s phone rings he answers. 
 
EXT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2300 
 
A step away from a platform. 
 
TOM speaks into a mobile phone. 
 
                                    TOM (Low) 
                    Mr. Thompson. Come for a drink. 
 
INT. PUB - NIGHT 2. 2300 
 
DANNY, shocked. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    It s Tom. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Tell him to go to Thames House... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Listen Tom... 
 
EXT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2301 
 
                            TOM (Into his phone) 
        Cannon Street station. There s a service area. Get 
                                    here now. 
 
He rings off. 
 
TOM unzips his hold-all. Inside the tracker device glows. He 
checks it then zips the bag up. 
 
INT. PUB - NIGHT 2. 2302 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Tom? You re breaking up... He s at Cannon Street. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            We should ring Harry. 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 31 

 
                                        DANNY 
            Definitely. With our careers dangling on those 
                                      threads. 
 
He does not. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            I love my career too. But maybe we owe it to 
                      Tom...give him one last chance? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I hate this loyalty thing. It tears you apart and 
                              it s bloody unfair. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Let s go. 
 
INT./EXT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2310 
 
Dark shadows. From TOM s POV: for a moment he sees ZIEGLER s 
face clearly then he disappears into the dark. 
 
TOM waits. 
 
Then he goes to the wall. There is a a chalk mark on the wall. 
TOM takes out a pair of latex gloves out of his hold-all and a 
tiny pen light. There is a small object stuck in the crack in 
the brick work. 
 
He unwraps the object. It is a small piece of card with a 
message written on it. By the dim light of his penlight it 
reads: 
 
 Our friend is warned off. Where s the meet?  
 
TOM takes a small camera from the holdall. He clips the 
message onto a small board. He puts the small board back into 
the hold all. 
 
He glances around. 
 
Then he takes one photograph of the message. Very quickly he 
closes the hold-all, wraps the message up and replaces it in 
the crack in the wall. 
 
He goes to a stairwell to get a better signal on his mobile. 
He rings. 
 
EXT. WEST END STREET - NIGHT 2. 2315 
 
CHRISTINE, walking, answers the mobile phone. 
 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 32 

                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      It s me. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Wait. 
 
She looks around. She steps into a doorway. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      Christine? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              What do you want? 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
            Our friend from the hotel came to my flat. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Oh no. 
 
She is looking up and down the street. 
 
INT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2315 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Christine? Are you there? 
 
EXT. WEST END STREET - NIGHT 2. 2315 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Look I need to tell you what I m doing. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    No don t. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              It s not safe. They could be scanning us. 
 
INT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2316 
 
                                        TOM 
        We ve got to risk that. Danny, Zoe and I have got 
              to brief someone about what we re doing. 
                                      (A beat) 
                                      Christine? 
 
                              CHRISTINE (ON PHONE) 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 33 

                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Right. I m at Cannon Street Tube. The guy in the 
                  hotel is making a dead drop here... 
 
EXT. WEST END STREET - NIGHT 2. 2316 
 
But CHRISTINE cannot take it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        No! I can t do this. Don t tell me anything, don t 
                              ask me anything... 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                ... Christine... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Just don t call. 
 
She rings off. She is in tears. 
 
INT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 2316 
 
TOM holds the phone hard against his face, very upset. 
 
ZOE and DANNY have arrived. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Where the hell... ah. 
 
He has seen TOM in a shadow. They go to him - there is a 
feverishness in his manner. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Let me get you up to speed. I had a visit from my 
          staring friend. He was going by the name of Herb 
                                      Ziegler. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Hunh. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Ziegler came round to my flat this evening and I 
                    planted a tracking device on him. 
 
ZOE with a glance at DANNY. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Right. 
 
                                        TOM 
            He made a drop. I m waiting for the pickup. 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 34 

 
                                        DANNY 
                        Maybe we should have a peek. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I did. It read:  Our friend is warned off: where s 
                                the safehouse?  
 
                                        ZOE 
                  That s what he did? Warned you off? 
 
                                        TOM 
          He said Christine will go to jail for treason. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Great why don t we all  go to jail for treason.  
 
                                        ZOE 
              We can t do this on our own anymore, Tom. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Yeah we ve got to ring in. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Harry will send in the cavalry. They could scare 
        off whoever s going to make the drop. For Godsake, 
              this is the only link we ve got to stop an 
                                    assassination. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                        Come on. Nights like this... 
                                      (Smiles) 
          You love it you know you do, this is why we do 
                                    this job. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      OK. Let s wait for the pickup. 
 
ZOE is very unhappy but agrees. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    All right. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Coffee? 
 
He unzips his hold all and takes out a thermos flask. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              You came prepared. 
 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 35 

                                        TOM 
                          I had a field kit ready. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          A man ahead of the game. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I think so. 
 
They look at each other. DANNY cannot hide his suspicion. Tom 
is full of confidence. 
 
INT. UNDERGROUND STATION SERVICE AREA - NIGHT 2. 0216 
 
A train roars through. 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY are still watching. 
 
                          TOM (Looks at his watch) 
                        Three hours. Ah. Here we go. 
 
A figure - we do not see his or her face - appears at the end 
of the service area. They see him make the drop. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Writing a reply? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yup. 
 
Then they see the figure replace the message and makes off 
into the gloom. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      I ll go. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Tom, you are going to tell Harry about this. I 
                                think you must. 
 
But TOM is not listening. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                                        Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I ll see. 
 
DANNY returns. TOM takes the message. He unfolds it and reads. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                  Salter s Farm 
                                      Feniston 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 36 

                                  Near Sudbury 
 
As they talk TOM opens his hold-all. He takes out the camera 
and prepares to photograph the message. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            Anyone know Feniston? 
 
ZOE and DANNY do not. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Sudbury s in Suffolk. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Zoe, have you got your car? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    For what? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          To go to Salter s Farm. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    No, oh no. 
 
TOM is vehement. 
 
                                        TOM 
            What the CIA are doing is espionage as rape. 
          They re trying to destroy my personal life with 
              Christine. Why should I trust them with my 
                                      country? 
 
He takes the photograph. He zips the bag up. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                      Let s go. 
 
They hesitate. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            For me or against me? 
 
DANNY and ZOE look at him. 
 
EXT. SUFFOLK COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 3. 0700 
 
The land is flat but curves to a sweeping horizon in the 
middle distance. A large field, bisected by a track, runs away 
from a dense copse to farm buildings: a farm outhouse, a big 
barn, orchards surrounding it. There is a large concrete water 
tower in the field. 
 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 37 

TOM, ZOE and DANNY are at the edge of the copse. 
 
They hand TOM s binoculars from one to another. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Nothing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Dead. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We ll wait  til nightfall then have a closer look. 
 
ZOE takes out a phone. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            Zoe don t ring in... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Hit me if you want to stop me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Just when we re on top of this... 
 
The mobile does not work. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            There s interference. 
 
DANNY takes out his phone and tries. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Let s leave it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Should work fine, there are masts on that tower. 
 
                                        TOM 
        There must be some kind of electronic interference 
                                        field. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Step by step we re getting pulled into this... 
 
                                        TOM 
          Look. The old tradecraft standard, Indian signs 
                                        yes? 
 
He snaps a twig off a bush. It s forked. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
          If anything happens to one of us leave this. It 
                                means  I m OK.  


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 38 

 
                              DANNY (With a sigh.) 
                                If you say so. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0800 
 
Everyone working. HARRY arrives at SAM s desk. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Still ringing them? 
 
                                  SAM (Scared) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        And? 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Nothing, they re not home. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Mobiles? 
 
                                        SAM 
                        All three  not available.  
 
                                        HARRY 
        Right. Every ten minutes you ring Tom s flat, Zoe 
                and Danny s flat and the three mobiles. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    Yes Harry. 
 
He moves away only to be approached by RUTH. She is blythe, 
ignorant of the bomb shell she is delivering. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Oh, Harry, I ve been onto the FBI like you asked 
            me. And this American Criminal? Michael  The 
              Shark  Karharias - amazing what they call 
                        themselves - well he s dead. 
 
HARRY stares at her. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
          The FBI had a tip off. His body was found in a 
                storm drain in Miami, three days ago. 
 
He is still staring at her, then breaks. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            So, Tom saw a dead man arrive at Heathrow. 
                                        (beat) 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 39 

                      I must talk to you. Privately. 
 
EXT. ALBERT EMBANKMENT - DAY 3. 0830 
 
HARRY and RUTH sit. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    I think Tom Quinn is on the blink. 
 
                                  RUTH (a beat) 
                                      Not Tom. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          He s been running an op on his own. For his own 
            purposes. And I m having nightmares about what 
                                    they are. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            What are you saying? He s acting against the 
                          interests of the service? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Harry, Tom Quinn is your brightest and best. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          It s the brightest and best who can go bad so 
          spectacularly. I saw it happen once before. To a 
                        golden young man in Ireland. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          What could possibly make Tom go on the blink? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    The moral ambiguities of the job? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                  I thought we all rather liked that. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Then maybe it s all consuming lust for a 
                                    Californian. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Yes lust can destroy the best of us. It nearly did 
                                        me. 
 
HARRY, a look at her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ah. 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 40 

 
                                        RUTH 
                          What are you going to do? 
 
Beat. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Ask for a warrant for Tom Quinn s arrest. 
 
RUTH is stunned. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        The police will pick him up on an anti-terrorism 
                                      charge. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        This is going to be so ugly. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    I know. Stand by me in this, Ruth. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Yes. 
 
EXT. SUFFOLK COUNTRYSIDE - DAY 3. 1800 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY are still in hiding by the side of the 
copse. 
 
Through TOM s binoculars the farm still looks shut up. The 
light is failing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Nothing s happening. I say we go back to the car, 
            out of range of the interference and report. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Alright. 
 
But just as they are about to move there is a sound in the 
copse behind them. 
 
Three masked men - in balaclavas - put guns to their heads. 
 
                                      1ST MAN 
                Safe to move, now it s dark Mr. Quinn. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: He sees the landscape: the field, the farm and 
its orchards in the distance. Birds rising from the field. He 
whirls around and sees the trees, a man in a hood, a gun in 
his face and a blackness coming toward him... 
 
A hood is forced over his head. 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 41 

 
INT. SALTER S FARM. STABLE - NIGHT 3. 1900 
 
                                      Darkness. 
 
                                    ZOE (O.S.) 
                                    Get off me! 
 
                                  DANNY (O.S.) 
                                Leave her alone! 
 
TOM s hood is pulled off. 
 
He sees DANNY with a hood on. All three of them have their 
hands tied above their heads by plastic strips. Ropes are 
pulling their arms up. 
 
Two of the masked men are struggling with ZOE. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Zoe! Zoe it s OK, they re taking the hood off! 
 
She stops struggling. The masked men take the hood from her 
head and pull her arms up, fixed to the rope. 
 
Then they take the hood from DANNY. 
 
TOM looks across - all three are suspended by ropes to a bar 
over their heads. They re having to stand on the tips of their 
toes. 
 
The masked men leave through a door. TOM looks hard to retain 
anything useful: beyond the door a security light flares up. 
The hard blue light reveals a farmyard, over grown with grass, 
and a big door to a barn the other side of the yard. 
 
The door has cracks in it but it is heavy. Streaks of the 
security light come into the stable. Then it goes off. 
 
Go to DANNY. FROM HIS POV: he looks around the stable. There 
is a dis-used old fridge. Hay. A dull yellowy single bulb 
hangs from a beam. The floor is hard mud. There are two wooden 
pillars supporting the roof s rafters. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          We could go up through the roof if we weren t 
                            trussed up like this... 
 
He struggles against the restraints - realises that it s 
useless. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Are you two all right? 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 42 

 
                                        ZOE 
                    This... could put my shoulder out. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Don t struggle against it. 
 
She shifts. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          God they were good, coming out of the wood like 
                                        that. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Aren t we... I mean aren t we meant to be on the 
                                    same side? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Not anymore. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    This must be a C.I.A. Safehouse. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        And the dead drop was directing our friend Ziegler 
                                  to come here. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    For what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Maybe the assassination s going down around here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      There is another explanation. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        What? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Ziegler used the dead drop to communicate with a 
        C.I.A. Agent, undercover. The agent told him the 
                        address of Karharias  base. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Here. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Oh no. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 43 

The light comes up in the yard. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I hope we re about to meet the famous Mickey  the 
                                Shark  Karharias. 
 
The bolts of the door are slid back. 
 
The three masked men are coming in. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Here we go... 
 
The three men make for DANNY. They release DANNY s rope, he 
falls to the floor, ankles still tied. He is dragged out into 
the yard. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Don t worry, don t worry, it ll be ok... 
 
The door is closed. 
 
TOM and ZOE wait. The door closes. 
 
Then the security light outside goes off. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We re not going to get out of this, are we. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      You are. 
 
She looks at him oddly. Does he mean he knows he won t? 
 
EXT. SALTER S FARM. FARMYARD - NIGHT 3. 1910 
 
DANNY is dragged through the garishly lit farmyard into the 
barn. 
 
INT. SALTER S FARM. BARN - NIGHT 3. 1911 
 
DANNY is dragged to a heavy cast iron metal garden bench. 
There are two bight lights on stands trained into his face. He 
is hand cuffed - arms out stretched - to the arms of the 
bench. 
 
He scrunches up his eyes at the glare. 
 
FROM DANNY S POV: The light is a white blur. Then he realises 
a man is sitting between them. His vision improves. It is HERB 
ZIEGLER. 
 



 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 44 

                                        DANNY 
                        You... you re Herb Ziegler. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
            First try and you ticked a box, well done. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    I thought... 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                        What? Come on Danny, share. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            We thought... this must be Karharias s base. 
 
ZIEGLER scoffs. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
            Just how incompetent are you people? You re 
            blundering around in a highly dangerous and 
        difficult op of ours, thinking we re the bad guys? 
 
DANNY rattles the handcuffs. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Is this what the good guys do? 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
          Oh we can get very tough when fools get in our 
                                        way. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                ZIEGLER (cont d) 
          So you ll go back to Harry like good children, 
        take a beating from the head beak which I think is 
          the Brit way of doing things... and let the big 
                          boys save your country. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        That s what it looks like. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
        Fine. One little thing. Did you tell Harry Pearce 
        Tom was preparing a legend? As an Irishman, with a 
                      Slovakian visa in his passport? 
 
A beat. DANNY s mind whirs. 
 
                                ZIEGLER (cont d) 
          What s the matter, Danny? Surprised that I knew 
            that? Look, did you tell Harry about Tom s 
                          passport, just answer me. 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 45 

 
                                        DANNY 
                I don t know what you re talking about. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                You did find it. In the leather shop. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                I don t know what you re talking about! 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
          What do you know about Tom s plans in Slovakia, 
                                        Danny? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Nothing! 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          You re sure about that? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I don t... know... what... you re talking... 
                                        about. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                                      Ah well. 
 
He looks to one side. 
 
One of the men in masks comes out of the darkness and strikes 
DANNY. 
 
CUT FROM DANNY just before his fist hits his stomach. 
 
INT. SALTER S FARM. STABLE - NIGHT 3. 1916 
 
TOM and ZOE. 
 
DANNY is heard crying out. 
 
ZOE and TOM stand up. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        What are they doing to him? 
 
DANNY cries out again. 
 
They stand frozen for a moment. 
 
DANNY cries out a third time. 
 
TOM throws himself at the door of the stable, the rope making 
him fall. He shouts: 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 46 

 
                                        TOM 
                                  Enough! Enough! 
 
There is a silence. 
 
Then the light goes on in the yard. 
 
They wait. 
 
The door is opened and a bloody faced DANNY is dragged in by 
three masked men. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                  You bastards! 
 
He throws himself at the men. One kicks him in the stomach. 
TOM doubles up. 
 
The masked men tie DANNY s ankle with the rope and bind his 
hands behind his back. 
 
They turn to ZOE. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        No... 
 
They unbind her foot and drag her out of the stable. 
 
                                  DANNY (To Zoe) 
          Tell them you know about the legend! Just tell 
                                        them! 
 
ZOE is dragged out of the stable and the door is bolted. 
 
DANNY and TOM stare at each other. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  What legend? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Yours. To go to Slovakia. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What are you talking about? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Brick Lane. The leather shop... 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Danny this is gibberish to me. 
 
A beat. 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 47 

 
                                        DANNY 
                        I tailed you. A to Z leather? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I had no idea. Good job. 
 
                                  DANNY (Angry) 
                                        Liar! 
 
                                        TOM 
            It was a lead that got nowhere. On Ziegler s 
                                    carrier bag. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What carrier bag? 
 
                                        TOM 
          At Heathrow Ziegler had a carrier bag. A to Z 
        Leather was on it. I checked the shop out. It came 
                                    to nothing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Look stop playing games... 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What did you find... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      ... you know what I found... 
 
                                        TOM 
                              No Danny, I don t! 
 
                                        DANNY 
          An Irish passport in the name of Paul Conners. 
          With a Slovakian Visa. And your photograph. You 
          went to the shop to check your forger was doing 
                                      the job! 
 
                                        TOM 
        I have not been preparing a legend. In the service 
                      or illegally. I swear to you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I don t believe you. How can I? Oh God if they 
                                  touch Zoe... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    All right. 
 
He shouts out. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 48 

                                  TOM (cont d) 
          Ziegler! I ll tell you what you want! Ziegler! 
 
A silence. 
 
No light in the yard. 
 
DANNY and TOM staring at each other. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I admired you. I d have gone to the ends of the 
                                  earth for you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          This isn t what it seems. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        No? 
 
                                  TOM (Shouts) 
          Ziegler! Don t touch her! I ll give you what you 
                                        want! 
 
                                        DANNY 
          It s boiling over in my head, Tom. What are you 
        doing? What is it in Slovakia? A love nest for you 
                              and Christine Dale? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ve got no cash for this, you know me, I m broke. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        There are ways of getting unbroke in our line of 
        work. What have you got mixed up in? Tom, tell me! 
 
The security light in the farmyard comes on. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Danny there s not time. Tell me you trust me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                No. No I don t. 
 
The bolt on the door is being slid open. 
 
The door opens. ZOE is dragged in by three masked men. She is 
unharmed. Two tie her hands and her foot. 
 
TOM is desperate to communicate with DANNY. 
 
                                        TOM 
              This is smoke and mirrors Danny. Someone s 
                            spinning an illusion... 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 49 

 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Yeah, you! 
 
ZIEGLER appears at the door. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
            Mr. Quinn? Would you please step this way? 
 
The 3rd masked man undoes lets TOM down and undoes his feet. 
 
TOM and DANNY look at each other. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Tom? Danny? 
 
DANNY spits at TOM. 
 
Then TOM goes out of the stable. The three masked men remain. 
One takes out a syringe. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                                    Oh no no. 
 
They hold DANNY down and put a syringe in his arm. they come 
to ZOE. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                                        No. 
 
FROM DANNY S POV: a man approaching ZOE with the syringe. He 
blacks out. 
 
BLACK SCREEN 
 
INT. SALTER S FARM. BARN - DAY 4. 0600 
 
BLACK SCREEN 
 
FROM DANNY S POV: he regains consciousness. 
 
Shafts of light slant across the huge space through gaps in 
the eaves. There are bales of straw, old rusty farmyard 
equipment. There is no sign of the lights used in the 
interrogations. 
 
ZOE is lying unconscious a few feet away from him. 
 
He moves. He realises that his hands and foot are free. 
ZOE stirs. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Danny? 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 50 

 
                                        DANNY 
                                      It s OK. 
 
ZOE points to a pile of old furniture. The cast iron garden 
seat is in the pile. 
 
Then they see their two mobiles on a bale of straw. 
 
DANNY lifts his. 
 
He presses a button, listens. 
 
                          DANNY (cont d) (To Zoe) 
                      It s clear. We go in. Agreed? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
He dials. Speaks into the mobile. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  I want to speak to the Landlord.... 
 
EXT. SALTER S FARM. FARMYARD - DAY 4. 1030 
 
HARRY s face. 
 
The camera pulls back. 
 
Forensic teams in very pale blue suits are swarming around the 
yard. Two are carrying away the garden seat - it s wrapped in 
polythene. Radios crackle. The farm is being swarmed over. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Nothing? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    No. It s been cleaned by experts. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Cleaning up. Yes, there s a lot of that to do. 
 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM. SMITHFIELDS - DAY 4. 1201 
 
HARRY and RUTH are sitting one side of the table. 
 
CHRISTINE DALE sits on the other side HARRY with two large, 
hard-faced men sitting either side of her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            You re not helping us Miss Dale. Why did Tom 
                              destroy the telex? 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 51 

 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        I don t know. To protect me. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Your employers have been very helpful to us. There 
          is no record of such a telex ever being sent by 
            C.I.A. Cland-ops. To anyone. Nor is there any 
        record of a satellite intercepted telephone call 
        between Rihad, Saudi Arabia and Wimbledon, London. 
 
                            CHRISTINE (Bewildered.) 
                                        But... 
 
He looks at RUTH. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        C.I.A. Registry does however have a record of you 
        receiving a telex. Sent from a commercial firm in 
        Islington. The firm has been traced. Our technical 
        side have retrieved the content of the telex from 
                            the firm s database. 
 
HARRY pushes a copy of the telex across the table. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Is that the message that you showed Tom? 
 
                              CHRISTINE (Faintly) 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Please speak up, Ms Dale. This is of course being 
                                      recorded. 
 
CLOSE TO CHRISTINE. Her face is taut with tension. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                                    This man. 
 
RUTH slides the photograph of HERB ZIEGLER across the table to 
CHRISTINE. 
 
                  HARRY (cont d) (Suddenly aggressive) 
        What have you done? Destroyed one of my best men? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        No! 
 
                                        HARRY 
        What are you? Some kind of old style honey trap? 
 



 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 52 

                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    I swear I... 
 
            IST HARD FACED MAN (Intervening. American) 
        Mr. Pearce, please honour the parameters we have 
          agreed for this interview or we will terminate. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            I thought it was wrong we didn t tell you an 
          assassin was here. I love your country. And for 
              your mikes in this place I love Tom Quinn. 
 
HARRY nods to RUTH. She hands him a photograph. He turns it 
over so she cannot see it. 
 
CHRISTINE looks at the photograph with fear. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Michael Karharias s body was found three days ago 
                          in a Miami storm drain. 
 
He turns the photograph over. It is a grisly image of MICHAEL 
KARHARIAS s face, dead. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        There is no American assassin. No mystery C.I.A. 
                man. Your family s from Czechoslovakia. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Wh... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Well not Czech. Slovakian?  Dale  - originally 
                              Dallich wasn t it? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        My Grandfather was from Bratislava. What is this? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        If you and Tom were going to flee and hide, tell 
          me Christine. I still look on myself as Tom s 
          friend. I will do all I can to help the two of 
                                        you. 
 
A beat. They look at each other. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I don t have a blind idea of what you re saying. 
 
HARRY leans back. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      I m so sorry that you don t. 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 53 

                              (To the heavy men) 
            Do tell your head of station many thanks for 
                              letting us have... 
                      (Looking directly at Christine) 
                  ... First bite at the rotten apple. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Please... 
 
But HARRY stands. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 4. 1240 
 
HARRY is letting the blinds down. ZOE and DANNY are standing. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Sit sit. 
 
They do. HARRY sits. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                        How do the two of you feel? 
 
ZOE and DANNY are wrong-footed by the kind tone. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
            The answer should be: victimised. Taken for 
                              suckers. Betrayed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        I can t believe that - no. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Danny? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yeah. I didn t want to believe it. I still don t. 
        But it s all coming together in my head and I hate 
                                        it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Share your thoughts with us, Danny. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Tom staged the whole thing. 
 
FLASHBACK: The  C.I.A. Team  receiving  MICHAEL KARHARIAS  at 
Heathrow. TOM is looking through binoculars. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
        Tom spotted him. He claimed it was Karharias. But 
        maybe the whole thing at Heathrow, the CIA team, 
                      the whole thing, it s a fake. 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 54 

 
HARRY S OFFICE: 
 
A stunned ZOE. 
 
A SERIES OF FLASHBACKS: 1) ZIEGLER at the bus stop 2) in the 
Heathrow Arrivals Hall waving to them. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                      Ziegler was Tom s collaborator? 
 
                                  DANNY (V.O.) 
                              His right hand man. 
 
3) : ZIEGLER between the lights in the barn facing ZOE. 
 
HARRY S OFFICE: 
 
                                        ZOE 
                And the farm? That was set up by Tom? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 
 
4)FLASHBACK: (This is DANNY s memory and there is sound) 
 
                                        TOM 
                          This isn t what it seems. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        No? 
 
HARRY S OFFICE: 
 
                              ZOE (To herself.) 
                                Please, not Tom. 
 
                                    HARRY (Low) 
            Zoe I want you to accept this. If you don t, 
        you ll eat your heart out. The Irish passport. Why 
                            did he have that made? 
 
HARRY waits. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            So he could disappear. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Yes. Whether with or without the Dale woman will 
            no doubt become clear when her people have 
                                interrogated her. 
 
GO TO ZOE as she remembers: 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 55 

 
FLASHBACK: 
 
                                        TOM 
        Zoe sometimes... don t you find you want to turn 
        this job inside out? Break all the rules, just for 
                                the hell of it? 
 
HARRY S OFFICE: 
 
On ZOE. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          So the assassination... 
 
                                        HARRY 
            I believe there is indeed a team of killers in 
                  this country. And Tom is running it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  How can you possibly believe that... 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Money, Zoe. In the end in this world it is often 
        money that finally reveals the truth. Ruth did a 
        banking search of accounts opened recently in the 
          name of Paul Connors. The legend on the false 
                                      passport? 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        And? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          The London Branch of the Slovakian National Co-
          operative Bank. A deposit three days ago of four 
                                million dollars. 
 
A silence. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        We have to face this terrible truth about someone 
                    we have worked with and admired. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                I can t, I won t. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Zoe. He was going to fake his disappearance to 
                pass himself off as some kind of hero. 
 



 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 56 

                                        HARRY 
        Traitors are often very vain people. They want us 
                            to think well of them. 
 
                                ZOE (A whisper) 
                                  The bastard. 
 
                                HARRY (brusque) 
        A full national alert is in place. Engagements of 
        Cabinet Members and prominent MPs are being ring-
        fenced with extra security. If Tom s friends are 
        going to strike the next twenty-four hours will be 
        crucial. And we don t have a blind idea where they 
        are or whom they are going to hit. So. All hands 
                                  to the pumps. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1300 
 
ZOE and DANNY, shell-shocked, sit together. ZOE has been 
weeping. DANNY is holding her hand. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        The horrible thing is... I can believe it. I can 
                              see him doing it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        We must stick together Danny. It musn t happen to 
                                    us. Ever. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        No. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Oh where are you, Tom? 
 
EXT. NORKFOLK FENLAND - DAY 4. 1400 
 
A powerful four-wheeled vehicle is making its way across a 
bleak, flat fen landscape. 
 
It pulls off the road, down an embankment into a hollow and 
comes to a stop. 
 
HERB ZIEGLER four men and a woman get out - it is the crew 
that was seen at Heathrow. 
 
They pull masks onto their faces. 
 
They go to the back of the vehicle and open it. 
 
A figure is bundled tightly in a large tarpaulin. 
 
It is TOM. He is gagged and blind-folded. 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 57 

 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          OK let s do the honours. 
 
They take out a needle. They hold TOM and inject him. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: 
 
Black. His blindfold is removed as he regains consciousness. 
 
His vision is distorted. He sees people with animal heads 
around him. He seems to see a sniper rifle floating towards 
him in a swirling, red-coloured mist. It is put into his 
hands. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      What... 
 
                                  ZIEGLER S VOICE 
            Haven t you seen a Gepard M1 12.7 Millimetre 
        rifle? Armour piercing rounds, uranium tipped. The 
                                sniper s dream. 
 
GENERAL POV: 
 
TOM, the group around him, sits in a sea of blue bells holding 
the rifle for a moment, staring at it. 
 
And then it is taken away. TOM realises the man who gave him 
the rifle is wearing surgical gloves. 
 
And TOM is hit in the face. He rolls over. 
 
They fall on him and bind his hands with plastic strip behind 
his back. 
 
                                      ZIEGLER 
                          And now we have our talk. 
 
TOM turns over and looks up at ZIEGLER. ZIEGLER removes his 
mask. The other four step back. 
 
FROM TOM S POV: 
 
Distorted. ZIEGLER s face seems strange in the swirling mist. 
 
                        ZIEGLER (cont d) (Laughing) 
            Don t you recognise me Tom? You know I didn t 
                think you would, you arrogant bastard. 
 
TOM blinks. 
 



 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 58 

                                        JOYCE 
                                  Hermann Joyce. 
 
TOM recognises him. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
                      Yeah. One of the living dead. 
 
He laughs. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        This... is this about Lisa? 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            Of course it s about Lisa. So be the polite 
                          Englishman, ask how she is. 
 
TOM is silent. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
        She is not good Tom. Not good at all. My daughter 
        is in a facility in Maine in a catatonic state of 
          withdrawal. She does not speak. She does not see. 
        She is not totally inert: There are times when she 
        begins to scream and she does not stop screaming 
            until the sedatives are injected into her. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Lisa Joyce. 
 
FLASHBACK: TOM s memory. LISA JOYCE, laughing, long red curly 
hair, a whirling long dress, is dancing away from TOM laughing 
and mocking him. 
 
                                        LISA 
                            Tom Quinn! Tom Quinn! 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        TOM 
                I m not responsible for what happened. 
 
                                  JOYCE (Fury) 
        Of course you are responsible! You were students 
                  together, she was a friend of yours! 
 
                                        TOM 
          I had no idea what she had got herself mixed up 
                                        in. 
 
FLASHBACK: TOM s memory. CLOSE TO LISA. She is passionate, 
almost feverish. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 59 

                                        LISA 
          The Red Brigades are fighting a revolutionary 
                                    cause Tom. 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        But I came to you for help. You were a graduate, 
        already an M.I.5 officer, undercover at the L.S.E. 
          I couldn t talk to her, I was C.I.A She called me 
          a fascist. The usual father daughter thing at a 
        somewhat extreme level. I looked to you to get her 
                                        out. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I tried. 
 
FLASHBACK : TOM s memory. CLOSE TO LISA s tear-stained face. 
 
                                        LISA 
                                  They did this? 
 
                                    TOM (O.S.) 
                                    Yes Lisa. 
 
                                        LISA 
        But they are meant to be socialists. I can t bear 
                              it. It s horrible. 
 
FENLAND: 
 
                                        TOM 
                I warned her off them as you asked me. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            Don t be so disingenuous you little shit. You 
          recruited her! You turned her into a Five asset, 
            an untrained girl of nineteen. You sent her 
            undercover to penetrate a hard core European 
                                  anarchist cell. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It was her choice! 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        When I heard they d tortured her for five days, my 
                            life changed forever. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  It was her choice to go undercover. 
 




 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 60 

                                        JOYCE 
        You say that again and God so help me I will take 
                                  your eyes out. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Hermann Joyce, veteran agent of a four year tour 
          undercover in the Soviet Union, the spy s spy, an 
        unsung hero. I was flattered when you asked me to 
        help Lisa. And you were pleased when she agreed to 
      go undercover. She was coming back to you, she was 
                      taking up the family tradition. 
 
JOYCE kicks him. TOM turns away, breathing into the pain. He 
recovers. He tries a new tack. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                  But she couldn t do it, could she. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
        She couldn t handle the fear you subjected her to. 
          Now she lives in a permanent state of terror. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What are you going to do with me? 
 
                                        JOYCE 
            You took everything from her, now I m taking 
        everything from you. See, I heard about this Iraqi 
          family, this notorious family. With a very big 
          grievance against your country and a very large 
        amount of money. I made myself available for this 
        hot job of work, SO hot I knew I d need a fall guy 
                to blame it on. And I thought of you. 
                                        (low) 
                              As I have so often. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  You set me up. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
      Oh yes, the mother of set ups. By now Harry thinks 
          you are the lowest thing on earth, a spy that 
            turns against his country. For money. I have 
          destroyed your very soul, Tom Quinn. You re like 
        Lisa now. In your personal hell. And that s just. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Just. 
 
                                        JOYCE 
          You have one other option. Become what I am. As 
        enemy of everything you believed in. You ll find 
                treason has a surprisingly sweet taste. 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 61 

 
TOM scoffs and looks away. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
        No don t be huffy, I know the service has got to 
        you. You ve got all the symptoms. You re diseased 
                              with disaffection. 
 
He gives him a card. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
            You only have to ring this number. It is an 
          answering machine on an empty floor in an empty 
          building. Just say  For Lisa  and say where you 
                          are. We ll pick you up. 
 
Looks around with satisfaction. 
 
                                  JOYCE (cont d) 
            Well, I have to move on. The great moments of 
        pleasure pass so quickly into memory, do they not? 
                                  (Looks around) 
        Flat bit of England this. I m thinking of taking 
          in Ipswich. Is that an historic British town? 
 
A nod from JOYCE and one of the men hits TOM on the back of 
the head. 
 
He blacks out. 
 
EXT. NORKFOLK FENLAND - DAY 4. 1456 
 
TOM recovers consciousness. 
 
TOM feels his head. There is blood. His hand is shaking. He 
stands unsteadily. He checks his pockets. Empty. He feels his 
shirt pocket. He takes out JOYCE s card. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Ipswich. 
 
He scrambles up onto the road. He looks one way then another. 
It is a very minor road. There is no traffic. 
 
He walks down the road. 
 
EXT. NORKFOLK FENLAND - DAY 4. 1457 
 
TOM walking along the road. There is a cottage, low, it s 
garden run down its fence dilapidated. 
 




 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 62 

He approaches the front door. There is a knocker but no bell. 
He knocks. Nothing. He realises there is the sound of a 
television. 
 
He goes round the cottage to the back door. The kitchen window 
is not on the latch. He opens it. 
 
INT. COTTAGE. - DAY 4. 1500 
 
TOM climbs in through the kitchen window over a sink and 
draining board. The sound of a television is very loud. 
There is an antiquated telephone on the kitchen wall. 
 
He goes into the hall. 
 
Through an open door he sees a very old woman lying on a couch 
looking at a television. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Hello? Please don t be alarmed... 
 
The woman cannot hear him. She stares at the television, 
oblivious. 
 
TOM goes back into the kitchen. He pulls the kitchen door half 
to, keeping an eye on the living room door. He lifts the 
telephone and dials a number. He listens. 
 
INT. CIA SAFEHOUSE - DAY 4. 1501 
 
A small, grey walled room with a glass brick window. Two hard 
sofas. CHRISTINE DALE sits on one, a Heavy Man - American 
haircut, suit, big pass on his lapel - sits next to her.  
 
Another Heavy Man sits on the other sofa with earphones on his 
head, connected to a listening device on a low cofee table 
before them. He too wears a big pass. CHRISTINES s mobile lies 
on the coffee table next to the listening device. 
 
The mobile is ringing. The Heavy Man picks up the mobile, 
clicks the  receive  button and hands it to CHRISTINE. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                      Christine? 
                                      (a beat) 
                                  Are you there? 
                                      (a beat) 
                                      Christine? 
 
She turns the mobile off and throws it across the room with a 
cry of distress. The first Heavy Man turns and stares at her 
impassively. 
 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 63 

INT. COTTAGE. KITCHEN - DAY 4. 1502 
 
TOM replaces the phone. He thinks for a moment then he dials 
again. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1502 
 
There is great tension on the Grid. DANNY and HARRY are locked 
in a discussion over a file. HARRY seems to be angry. Two 
people in the background are running. 
 
ZOE lifts a telephone. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
            This is an open line but I ve got to use it. 
 
Hand over the phone, she signals across the Grid to HARRY and 
DANNY, who are looking at a file. 
 
                                ZOE (into phone) 
                              Tom where are you? 
 
DANNY and HARRY are turning. HARRY waves an arm to Malcolm who 
comes running. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Make him talk. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Tom it s Zoe. 
 
INT. COTTAGE - DAY 4. 1503 
 
                                        TOM 
                Zoe. Listen. I m just about certain the 
                  assassination will be tried in Ipswich. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1504 
 
MALCOLM starts a tape recorder. And lifts a telephone. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
              We need a trace for a call in progress on 
                                  extension 3491. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                        Zoe? 
 
They are all stoney faced. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 


 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 64 

                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
          I don t know who s going to be hit. A sniper s 
            rifle will be left at the scene, a Hungarian 
            Gepard M1. It ll have my finger prints on it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                We know about the assassination, Tom. 
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                              What do you mean? 
 
INT. COTTAGE - DAY 4. 1505 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Zoe? 
 
And he hears the television in the living room. 
 
                                  TV ANCHORMAN 
        ... this programme for a news bulletin. There has 
          been an attempt on the life of the Chief of the 
          Defence Staff. Air Chief Marshal Sir John Stone 
        was on his way to talk to Officers at an RAF base 
        near Ipswich. Reports are coming in that doctors 
        at Ipswich General Hospital are fighting to save 
          his life. He arrived driven by Special Branch 
        officers in the same car which was hit by a single 
          bullet from a marksman on the outskirts of the 
        city. There has been no official statement but we 
            understand he is suffering from a serious head 
                                      wound... 
 
He closes the door. The TV set blares on. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Zoe I just heard... how is he? 
 
                                  ZOE (ON PHONE) 
                        He died twenty minutes ago. 
 
TOM holds the phone away from his face, taking the news in. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                              Tom? Are you there? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Listen. I ve been set up. The man behind it is ex 
        CIA. Hermann Joyce. I recruited his daughter Lisa 
        to penetrate a cell of the Neo Red Brigades. She 
                      went to pieces. He blames me. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1508 
 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 65 

All are gathered around listening through phones or earpiece 
extensions. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Hermann Joyce? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Ruth check it out. 
 
                              SAM (Very nervous) 
                          Harry, Downing Street... 
 
HARRY holds up a hand:  wait ..  
 
                                  TOM (ON PHONE) 
                                        Zoe? 
 
HARRY takes the phone from her. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    Tom. Come back to Thames House. 
 
INT. COTTAGE. KITCHEN - DAY 4. 1509 
 
TOM holds the phone away from his face. He decides. He raises 
the phone. 
 
                                        TOM 
          No. You come to me. Someone s wrecking my life. 
                              I ve got to explain. 
 
                                HARRY (ON PHONE) 
                  You are to come in. That s an order. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Just the three of you. If I get a whiff of Special 
                            Forces I ll disappear. 
 
A door bell rings and someone comes into the cottage through 
the front door. 
 
                                  WOMAN S VOICE 
                              Coo ee Gerty girl. 
 
TOM mouths  shit.  
 
                          TOM (Low into the phone) 
          Old Orchard Cottage. Near Incheby. Two B roads 
              cross, one to Lowestoft one to Aldebrugh. 
 
He puts the phone down. 
 
                                  WOMAN S VOICE 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 66 

                      Gerty girl this telly o  yours. 
 
The television is turned off. The Woman is speaking very 
loudly. 
 
                            WOMAN S VOICE (cont d) 
        All ready are you? Your daughter s having you for 
        the night, remember? Lucky Gerty girl, what oh yes 
                          I ll get your biscuits. 
 
And a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN comes into the kitchen in a rush. She 
takes a biscuit tin from the mantel shelf. She has not seen 
TOM, who closes his eyes. 
 
                                        WOMAN 
                    Too many choccy biccies you know. 
 
She goes out. 
 
INT. COTTAGE. KITCHEN - DAY 4. 1514 
 
TOM is still standing against the wall in the kitchen. He 
waits, then he goes into the hall and into the living room. He 
looks around. An old person s room: faded, packed with 
nicknacks, the furniture chunky and dark with sunken seats.  
 
There is a small bore shot gun in a case on the wall, a box of 
ammunition below it. He looks at the gun. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1515 
 
DANNY and ZOE are looking anxiously at HARRY s office. Through 
the glass he can be seen talking on the phone. 
 
They have an ordinance survey map of an area of Suffolk. It 
shows the coast. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 4. 1515 
 
HARRY is speaking low. He is looking out at ZOE and DANNY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Yes Sir, I think we do know who is responsible for 
                            the attack. (A beat) 
Yes Sir, with all due speed. 
 
He puts the telephone down and turns away so DANNY and ZOE 
cannot see him hold his hands to his face. 
 
Then he braces himself and goes toward the door. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1515 
 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 67 

DANNY and ZOE. RUTH comes over to them. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Tom s file. He did recruit a girl, Lisa Joyce, she 
                                didn t work out. 
 
HARRY joins them. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Well that s part of his story that s... 
 
HARRY takes the file from DANNY and flips it open. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    I ll ask the C.I.A. about Joyce. 
 
                HARRY (Throwing the file on the desk.) 
                        We re going to pick Tom up. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Like the man said: send in heavies you won t see 
                                  him for dust. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We re dealing with the assassination of the head 
                      of the British armed forces. 
                                      (Shouts) 
                                      Malcolm! 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Harry, you must tell us what you re thinking. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                I am not debating Tom Quinn with you. 
 
MALCOLM arrives. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                    Yes Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          I want a signal device. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                    Coming up. 
 
He zooms away. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Danny. Order a chinook from the Colchester station 
        to be five minutes away from this cottage. With a 
                  detachment of Special Forces aboard. 
 


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 68 

                                DANNY (Shocked) 
        What do we need backup like that for? This is Tom. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Just do it! 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Right. 
 
He lifts a phone. 
 
MALCOLM approaches. He has a device that looks like a pager. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Signal device. It sends a simple command. Who will 
                              you want to signal? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Special forces Colchester detachment. Danny will 
                              give you the code. 
 
RUTH puts a phone down and calls across to HARRY. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          The C.I.A. won t tell us about Hermann Joyce. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Then hack into their database. I must know about 
                                        him. 
 
                            RUTH (already onto it) 
                  Their firewalls will be massive... 
 
                                        HARRY 
        When you know something call us on the scrambler 
                                    in the car. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Backup. I ll give you a grid reference... 
 
DANNY consults the map. MALCOLM is fiddling with the signal 
device. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Come on! Let s go! 
 
INT. CAR - DAY 4. 1630 
 
DANNY is driving. ZOE is studying a road map in the front 
seat. HARRY sits in the back reading TOM s file. 
 
They sit in silence. 
 


 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 69 

A phone rings. HARRY lifts the receiver. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ruth. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1631 
 
RUTH sits before her computer screen, phone to her ear. Tears 
are streaming down her face. 
 
EXT. COTTAGE - DAY 4. 1700 
 
TOM is waiting a distance from the cottage. He has the small-
bore shot gun. Nothing for a moment then there is the sound of 
a car. It draws up a distance from the cottage. TOM crouches. 
 
Then HARRY, DANNY and ZOE get out of the car and walk towards 
the cottage. They push the front door. It is open. HARRY steps 
inside. 
 
INT. COTTAGE. LIVING ROOM - DAY 4. 1702 
 
HARRY and ZOE. HARRY has TOM s file in his hand. DANNY has 
looked around and comes in. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        No? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        No. 
 
They turn. TOM stands in the doorway with the shotgun. they 
are stony faced. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Tom. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Don t worry I m ok. It was a bit rough but no 
                                lasting damage... 
                      (They are just standing there.) 
            What s the matter? You pulled my file on Lisa 
                                        Joyce? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Yes we did that. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well that s what it s about. That s why Joyce has 
                                    done this. 
 


 69                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 70 

                                        DANNY 
                                        Tom... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Shut up. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  What is this? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  You met Joyce? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Yes! Danny did, and Zoe. At the farm where he held 
                                        us... 
 
                    ZOE (Turning away, contemptuous) 
                                  For Godsake... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          What Zoe, what s wrong? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      You re lying. It wasn t Joyce. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Well who the hell do you think it was? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  You tell us! 
 
                                        TOM 
            Hermann Joyce was one of the best undercover 
        agents the C.I.A. ever had... In God s name, what 
                                    is wrong? 
 
              ZOE (Cannot contain herself any longer.) 
        What s wrong is that Herman Joyce died five years 
                                        ago. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Tom what has happened to you? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Nothing has happened to me, I m just trying to 
                                  clear my name! 
                                    (a memory) 
                                      Oh God. 
 
FLASHBACK FROM TOM S POV: 
 
                                        JOYCE 
                                  Hermann Joyce. 


 70                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 71 

                                        (beat) 
                      Yeah. One of the living dead. 
 
TOM laughs. 
 
BACK TO THE COTTAGE: 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Joyce died in a car accident and he was buried in 
        his small home town of Sefton, Maine. Ruth has a 
              picture of the funeral. His wife was there. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Then he doctored the files! 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It was a full C.I.A. funeral, Tom. Flags on the 
            coffin, weeping widow, anonymous colleagues. 
 
                                TOM (Desperate) 
        Ok. Great. Lets think it through. He faked his own 
          death. Staged a car accident... Perfect cover. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        All right tell him it all. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          We telephoned his wife from the car, Tom. She s 
        living in New York. She was in the car with him! 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Then she s in it with him! 
 
Now they are staring at him with distaste. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Harry thinks this whole thing s been run by you. 
 
                                  TOM (To Harry) 
                                      Do you? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I ve seen the good go bad before. Men as good as 
                                        you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    How can you believe that of me? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Better not to believe anything, just what s in 
                              front of your eyes. 
 



 71                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 72 

                                        DANNY 
                          You better give that... 
 
He steps forward to take the gun. TOM, a raise hand, warns him 
back. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  It s over Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You can t let Joyce win. Don t you see what he s 
                                    done to us? 
 
HARRY goes to put his hand in his jacket pocket. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                  Don t Harry... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      What... 
 
                                        TOM 
          You ve got a signal device haven t you. In your 
                              pocket. For backup. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              There s nothing... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Raise your hands Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              There s no need... 
 
                                        TOM 
          I can t let you call them in! I ve got to get to 
              Joyce, that way you ll know I m innocent! 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          You know what I must do. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Don t Harry. 
 
HARRY puts his hand in his pocket. 
 
TOM fires. A horrible loud sound. HARRY is skewed away 
wounded, his clothes torn down one side by the shot. The 
signal device flies from his hand. 
 
ZOE and DANNY are deafened for a moment. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 


 72                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 73 

                      Harry, Zoe, Danny, I m sorry. 
 
TOM runs out. 
 
DANNY and ZOE go to the wounded HARRY - his eyes are open, 
staring ahead. DANNY is pulling out his mobile to ring for 
help. 
 
EXT. SUFFOLK BEACH - DAY 4. 1735 
 
TOM runs across marsh land towards the beach. Steep shingle 
sweeps down to a boiling sea. He stops. Stares down at the 
sea. 
 
Then, in a frenzy, he throws the gun aside, tears his shoes 
off and runs down the shingle. He dives into the sea and swims 
further and further out. 
 
EXT. COTTAGE - DAY 4. 1745 
 
GENERAL POV: ambulance and police are outside the cottage. 
HARRY is being taken to the ambulance on a stretcher. 
 
DANNY and ZOE watch. 
 
Closer. DANNY s mobile rings. He answers it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Where? 
 
EXT. SUFFOLK BEACH - DAY 4. 1750 
 
Police are on the single beach. An area is taped off. 
 
CLOSER: DANNY and ZOE stand looking at TOM s shoes. 
 
ZOE walks away out of the cordon. She stops and crouches down. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              They re his shoes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                What have we done? Did we let him down? 
 
He lowers his head. ZOE speaks quietly, an eye on the police. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Danny. 
 



 73                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 10 Page 74 

She indicates the shingle. There is a forked twig amongst the 
pebbles - the Indian sign agreed at the farmhouse. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  He walked. The old mucker walked... 
 
ZOE, a glance:  be quiet.  A policeman is approaching. She 
lifts the fork and folds her hand around it. 
 
                                      POLICEMAN 
                                Something there? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              No. Nothing at all. 
 
DANNY crouches beside ZOE. They look out to sea. 
 
END 




































 74