 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                          Episode Five 

 

                                        By 

 

                        Howard Brenton 

                                                     Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 1 

EXT. LONDON STREET - DAY 0. 1540 
 
A white furniture van with a sign on it -  Pluto Removals  -is 
being filmed at a distance. It is parked in an area of lock-up 
garages. 
 
Figures are unloading drums from the lock-up and putting them 
into the furniture van. 
 
                                  VOICE (RUTH) 
            These are members of a group calling itself 
          Patmos.  Ideology: survivalist. The lock-up seen 
          here was inspected by Special Branch. The drums 
        seen here were empty. The van has been left parked 
        in an East End car park for the last forty-eight 
                    hours. Level of Threat: Blue, A/B 
 
EXT. LONDON STREET - DAY 0. 1138 
 
Again a hand-held camera. 
 
A Caucasian male is stopped, overpowered and deftly pulled 
into a van, the doors close and the van pulls off. And... 
 
EXT. WOODLAND AND SCRUB - DAY 0. 1145 
 
Figures training with weapons in woodland and scrub, mountains 
behind. 
 
                                        VOICE 
        These pictures were taken in the Brecon Beacons of 
        an animal rights group believed to be planning an 
                armed attack. Target is suspected to be 
            laboratories in Bristol. Level of Threat: Blue 
                                        A/B. 
 
INT. HOUSE - DAY 0. 1153 
 
Hand held camera, a door has just been smashed down. Armed 
figures in black wearing gas masks are pounding up stairs. CUT 
TO: room after room: empty. 
 
Then a small back room. On a trestle table there are chemical 
implements. Stacked in a corner of the room there are bags of 
fertiliser. It s a bomb making factory. 
 
Very noisy then silent. 
 
The camera CLOSES on a map of the Whitehall area of London 
pinned to the wall with arrows and routes marked upon it. 
 
                  VOICE (RUTH) (Very matter-of-fact) 



 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 2 

          House on Peckham Rise, found empty. Discovered: 
          detailed maps of Whitehall Government Buildings 
        with CCTV camera positions marked. The bomb-makers 
          have still not been apprehended. Their group is 
        unknown. Level of threat is flagged as Blue: A/A. 
 
INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 0. 1250 
 
SEEN BY A CCTV (COLOUR) CAMERA: 
 
                                    INTERROGATOR 
        You are Christopher John Jennings. You work as a 
            maintenance engineer at Sefton B Nuclear Power 
        Station in East Anglia. You have recently received 
            a transfer in your bank account of one hundred 
                                thousand pounds. 
 
A bank statement is passed over the table. 
 
                              INTERROGATOR (cont d) 
          We believe you have sold information about the 
          nuclear plant of use to terrorists operating out 
                                of North Africa. 
 
JENNINGS goes to pieces. 
 
                                      JENNINGS 
                        Oh God, oh God help me... 
 
A figure moves towards JENNINGS, aggressively. The automatic 
camera zooming in. 
 
                                  VOICE (RUTH) 
          The interrogation of this suspect is on-going. 
                          Level of threat: Red, A. 
 
Freeze on the terrified face of JENNINGS. 
 
And his face is on a monitor s screen. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0705 
 
RUTH sits looking at the monitor. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                              Good morning world. 
 
TITLES 
 
EXT. HUNGERFORD BRIDGE - DAY 1. 0740 
 
A CCTV Camera looks at the traffic crossing on the north side 
of the bridge. 


 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 3 

 
Morning rush hour: traffic is jammed on the bridge and along 
the north embankment. The buses are full, people hurry along 
the pavements. Busy, crowded London. Focus on a figure 
crossing the bridge, walking towards camera - it s TOM. 
 
EXT./INT. HUNGERFORD BRIDGE/COFFEE SHOP - DAY 1. 0742 
 
TOM walks down the steps of Hungerford bridge, then the camera 
zooms towards a coffee shop. The window is misted. GO CLOSER. 
 
A hand wipes a circle in the misted window and we see a POV 
from inside of TOM approaching. REVERSE: to see the person 
looking out is VICKY. 
 
INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY 1. 0743 
 
TOM and VICKY are sitting at a bar on stools facing the glass. 
She takes a long white envelope from her bag and holds it out 
to him. Noise. The closeness of others. 
 
TOM looks at the tickets. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Egypt? 
 
                                        VICKY 
          The hotel s on an island in the middle of the 
            river Nile. Near Thebes and the valley of the 
        Kings. We can drive out into the desert and spend 
          the night under the stars, shagging ourselves 
                                      stupid. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        No way can I go to Egypt. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            You ve got some leave. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I can t. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                Can t or won t? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      They d never give me clearance. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            Oh the mysterious  they , your (loud) spooky 
                                      bosses. 
 
                      TOM (Slipping off the stool) 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 4 

        Take the tickets back. If they re difficult I ll 
                                  go halves... 
 
                                        VICKY 
      If you don t come to Egypt with me I ll break this 
                                      window. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Don t be ridiculous... 
 
She thumps the window with great force. It holds. People turn. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                  You re going to dump me aren t you. 
 
TOM sighs. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Look let s have lunch and talk. The Clock Tower, 
                                        yes? 
 
                                        VICKY 
                Expensive. Definitely a dumping lunch. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        One? 
 
                      VICKY (A bright forced smile) 
          Right then. Windows are safe until one o'clock. 
 
TOM slips away, his face drawn. 
 
Behind him her smile slips away to a look of misery. 
 
EXT. ESTABLISHING. THAMES HOUSE - DAY 1. 0815 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0816 
 
The Grid is busy with people arriving for work. DANNY is not 
amongst them. There are two officers: PHIL - middle aged, 
portly - and MARY - 30s, conservatively dressed, hair up 
tight. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  Saw that Jude Law film last night. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    And what was that like for you? 
 
                                        SAM 
                              That d be telling. 
 



 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 5 

                                        COLIN 
                            Ever been on a barge? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      A what? 
 
                                        COLIN 
      Me and some mates are going up to East Anglia this 
                  weekend, on the canals. Great pubs. 
 
                                        SAM 
          You ll all fall in. And get that rat s disease. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                      You don t want to come then? 
 
SAM pulls a face. 
 
                        COLIN (cont d) (Pushing it) 
                    What you doing this weekend, Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      That s red flagged classified. 
 
COLIN and SAM grin at each other. 
 
TOM peels off. 
 
HARRY can be seen in his office talking to a man and a woman. 
 
MALCOLM is looking at the water-cooler. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                Harry s in early. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          He s got some people from St Albans with him. 
 
MALCOLM, to no one. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      The water cooler s half empty. 
 
There is a distant muffled sound. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                  What was that? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  What was what? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    That sound. 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 6 

 
                                        COLIN 
          It s probably the registry lift. The door gets 
                              stuck then bangs. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Maintenance in this building is not what it was. 
                      Like unfilled water-coolers... 
 
TOM goes over to RUTH. We see her screen: she is flicking 
through the images of terrorist activity seen pre-credits. 
 
                                        TOM 
          That the weekly threat assessment for Downing 
                                      Street? 
 
                                        RUTH 
              Yup. They like it nice and dumbed down in 
                    pictures. Bike s waiting for it. 
 
ZOE comes through the pods. She is in a bad temper. She makes 
for her desk. TOM waylays her. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Zoe, the employee at Sefton B, could you look 
            through the latest interrogation transcripts? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Look I ve just got here, right? 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Fine. Did Danny come in with you? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Obviously not. 
 
She turns away and makes for the door to the corridor. 
 
                                    TOM (Sotto) 
                                      Oh Zoe. 
 
SAM notices ZOE s distress. 
 
TOM looks at the clock. It is 8.17am. HARRY is coming out of 
his office. The two people from St Albans follow him. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Tom this is Bridget Sands and Mark Woolly, 
            quizzers from St Albans. This is Tom Quinn. 
 
                                  MARK (Shakes) 
                                        Tom. 
 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 7 

BRIDGET shakes without saying anything. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Mark and Bridget are here to update us on the 
                  interrogation of the Sefton B suspect. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      How are things at St Albans? 
 
                                        MARK 
        Bit fraught. There s pressure on us to break what 
              terrorist suspects we ve got our hands on. 
 
A euphemism, TOM suspects, for very rough interrogation. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Break. 
 
                                        MARK 
                                        Yes. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. CORRIDOR OFF THE GRID - DAY 1. 0818 
 
ZOE is leaning against a wall, crying. 
 
SAM comes quickly through the doors. ZOE looks up, tears down 
her face. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        No doubt everyone s heard what happened - me and 
        the love of my life, caught on camera. Did you see 
                                    the tapes? 
 
                                        SAM 
                      Colin said Tom destroyed them. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Not before people had a good lech. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        No... 
 
SAM puts out a comforting hand to ZOE, who lowers her head. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            What I can t deal with is this feeling of... 
 
Suddenly there is an incredibly loud alarm. They both start. 
 
                        SAM (Words cannot be heard) 
                                What s happening? 
 
ZOE grabs her and begins to pull her back to the Grid. 


 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 8 

 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0821 
 
The alarm sounding. Everyone is rooted to the spot, but for 
ZOE and SAM who rush into the room. 
 
HARRY is shouting. He cannot be heard. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          If you could all just pay attention the major 
                                incident alarm... 
                  (The alarm stops. Harry is shouting) 
                                      Has s... 
                              (Lowers his voice) 
          As I was saying, the major incident alarm has 
                                      sounded. 
 
People are looking at the pods. DANNY is trying to get through 
them but they will not work. Bewilderment on his face. 
 
TOM looks at DANNY, stuck the other side of the pods. Sign 
language... DANNY:  What the hell s going on?  TOM, pointing 
at his watch,  You re late.  
 
HARRY comes up to TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Let him in? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        The book says when the alarm sounds no one leaves, 
                        no one comes onto the Grid. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Yes but this is only a glorified fire drill? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          More than that. Terrorist attack - how prepared 
          are we? Bali, Kenya, the Moscow Theatre - any 
                        moment it will happen here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                More reason for having Danny on board. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              You re EmEx Officer. 
 
HARRY moves away. 
 
TOM thinks for a moment then presses the button. Nothing. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Malcolm, can we get this thing open? 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 9 

 
                                      MALCOLM 
                        There s a manual override. 
 
He goes to a little door on the wall and opens it. There is a 
red handle inside. He pulls it. 
 
While this is happening: 
 
                                        MARK 
                      Harry, do we have to be here? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Sorry Mark, the rules state all personnel in situ 
                                    take part. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
          But we ve got to brief the Home Secretary in an 
                                      hour... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Can t help I m afraid. 
 
He turns to address the room... as TOM and MALCOLM struggle 
with a pod. DANNY waiting the other side of the reinforced 
glass. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
          Everyone! We knew an EERIE exercise was going to 
            be sprung on us sometime this month. EERIE? 
 
No one responds for a moment. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  Extreme Emergency Response Exercise. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Good man. 
                                  (Going fast) 
The first EERIE rule is that every officer responds to 
whatever s thrown at us in a professional manner. We treat 
this as real. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  Oh what fun. 
 
RUTH gets some glum looks. 
 
CLOSE TO: TOM and MALCOLM at the pods. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Last time we had one of these was five years ago. 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 10 

                                        TOM 
                I was in Ireland then. How did it go? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
            It was an absolute farce. All the National 
          emergency systems were totally unprepared for an 
                                      attack. 
 
BACK TO HARRY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Right. Now Tom is designated... 
 
The alarm goes off again. TOM and MALCOLM have moved the pod 
manually and DANNY is coming through. 
 
                HARRY (cont d) (His words drowned out) 
                  For Godsake close that bloody thing! 
 
DANNY is through. TOM, MALCOLM and DANNY get the pod closed. 
The alarm cuts out. 
 
HARRY gestures to TOM, they talk privately. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          What was all that about? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                There s a drill. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Big one? 
 
                                        COLIN 
          Dunno. Want to come on the canals tomorrow and 
                                      Sunday? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          One of your barge trips? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                  Booze barge. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Yeah I m up for that. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Oh. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        What? 
 



 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 11 

                                        SAM 
        Can I come after all? I mean it s the countryside, 
                                      isn t it. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  More the merrier, makes it cheaper. 
 
HARRY turns to the Grid, claps his hands to get attention. He 
is irritated. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Right can we all get on? Tom is designated EmEx - 
        Emergency Executive - Officer. In a major incident 
            he would co-ordinate all our efforts, so... 
 
A gesture to TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
        This is how it works. An EERIE team somewhere in 
          the building will feed us information about an 
            emergency. As it unfolds they will assess our 
                                      response. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    What about the work we re doing? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Put everything aside  til the exercise is over. 
            Folks we take this seriously. As far as we re 
          concerned there is a major incident in progress. 
                    Remember what this service does... 
 
The over-eager COLIN. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                        Gather, identify and destroy. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Thank you Colin. We gather what information we can 
            on threats to national security, we identify 
          enemies of the state and we send the appropriate 
          forces - police, special forces - to close them 
        down. And that is exactly what we do in a National 
          emergency like this one. Colin, Malcolm - you ll 
                            form a technical team. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              Techies of the day. 
 
                              TOM (Ignoring that) 
          Zoe, monitor radio broadcasts. Try to build a 
                    picture of what is happening. Yes? 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 12 

                                        ZOE 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Sam, Ruth: you are our research team. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Goody. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Danny you are liaison officer for all the groups 
            and my second in command. The rest of you, 
          including our unwilling guests - sorry Bridget, 
              Mark - muck in with the groups as needed. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Rock  n  roll. 
 
Overheard by ZOE and RUTH: 
 
                                        MARK 
                    I suppose we go along with this? 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
        But if there is a real emergency we can t be stuck 
                                      here.... 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Let s talk to the Duty Room. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0833 
 
All are gathered around a monitor on DANNY s desk. There s a 
CCTV link to the Thames House Duty Room. 
 
A middle-aged woman, DOT, is looking up at the camera. She is 
very frightened. 
 
Throughout the scene DOT is on the monitor. 
 
                                  DOT (SCREEN) 
          There s been an explosion in Parliament Square. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Do we know what kind of explosion? 
 
                                  DOT (SCREEN) 
        Not yet. But I m the Duty Room Officer in charge 
            of security and the drill is to seal all the 
                    floors in Thames House. In case. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                   Case of what? 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 13 

 
RUTH s enthusiasm for detail makes her chirpy. ZOE takes off 
her earphones to listen during RUTH s speech. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Well if it had been a nuclear device we wouldn t 
            be here. But it could be a dirty bomb, with 
            radioactive material blown out over the city. 
          People will get radiation poisoning in range of 
              ooh, a mile? And then, for years, cancers, 
                              deformed children. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          And we re to believe this thing s gone off in 
                  Parliament Square? Half a mile away? 
 
RUTH is chirpy. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Oh yes. Latest intelligence is there are at least 
        ten dirty bombs under construction, somewhere in 
                                      London. 
 
They all look at her. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
                  It was in my briefing two weeks ago. 
 
ZOE puts her earphones back on. 
 
                        TOM (To Dot on the screen) 
                What are the emergency services doing? 
 
                                  DOT (SCREEN) 
          I don t know. There s a lot of confusion... oh 
                                        God. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                  DOT (SCREEN) 
            C section and the Registry, I can t lock them 
                                        down. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                        DOT 
                          The system s not working. 
 
                                MALCOLM (Raving) 




 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 14 

        The sins of Maintenance. Why is it that nothing in 
                              this country works? 
 
BRIDGET and ZOE both trying to get a line on their mobiles and 
land lines. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                                I can t call out. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              The damper cage must have been activated. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                                What s that mean? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It means our phones and mobiles won t work. We re 
                                totally cut off. 
 
                              BRIDGET (desperate) 
          But I need to call the hospital. My daughter... 
 
                                        TOM 
        How about the other floors? Immigration, Sections 
                                    A and D... 
 
                                        DOT 
          I m sorry, the locking switches won t work... 
 
                                        TOM 
        Are you saying the control room, and the Grid are 
                      the only areas locked down... 
 
                                        DOT 
                                At the moment... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              It s on Radio Four. 
 
Everyone still. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Put it on speakers. 
                                      (To Dot) 
        Dot you must lock down the whole of the building. 
 
ZOE throws switches. The voice of an announcer. Everyone is 
very still, listening. 
 
                              ANNOUNCER (SPEAKERS) 
        ... as we know more as this incident unfolds. To 
        repeat. A bomb has exploded in Parliament Square. 
        Reports are sketchy but police are asking traffic 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 15 

          to avoid Parliament Square, the area around the 
          House of Commons and Westminster Abbey and the 
          Embankment... We... We have our reporter Ed Hadley 
        on the scene IN Central London. Ed, what can you 
                                      tell us? 
 
A beat. The roar of helicopters on the radio link. 
 
And somewhere on the Grid there is the loud ringing of a 
telephone. COLIN goes in search of it. 
 
                              REPORTER (SPEAKERS) 
        Sue, I m standing near the cenotaph looking down 
            Whitehall toward Parliament Square. Police are 
            asking drivers to evacuate the area, that s 
        happening and people are abandoning their cars and 
                      running past me up Whitehall... 
 
                              ANNOUNCER (SPEAKERS) 
                            And this is because... 
 
              REPORTER (SPEAKERS) (Strain in his voice) 
          ... well at this kind of incident there is the 
              ever-present fear of another explosion... 
 
                    RUTH (To Sam, under her breath) 
                  But explosion of what, stupid man... 
 
COLIN is at the door of the meeting room. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  It s the Downing Street scrambler. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Zoe keep monitoring the radio. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1.0840 
 
TOM turns on the monitor. A video-phone image appears on the 
screen. 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
                                  Is that five? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Yes. Who is this? 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        Paul Dunbarton, I m the Downing Street EmEx. Who 
                              am I speaking to? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Tom Quinn, the EmEx at Thames House. Where are 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 16 

                                        you? 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
                                  DeFen D ten. 
 
RUTH looks at TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    That s the cabinet office bunker. 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        Tom. You need to know the PM and the Cabinet are 
                        on their way to Turnstile. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Downing Street has been evacuated? 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
          It s the new post 9/11 procedure. Helicopters 
        landed on Horseguards. The PM and members of the 
              Cabinet who were in number ten should be at 
          Turnstile in fifty minutes. We need to know what 
          this is and who s behind it. Have you had any 
                                  intel on this? 
 
                                        TOM 
        It could be one of ten or more groups. We ll get 
              back to you. What about the Royal Family? 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        They re at Sandown Races. They re being lifted by 
            helicopter to Windsor Castle - the new nuclear 
                                  bunker there. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Keep this line open. Sam. 
 
HARRY comes into the meeting room. He leans against the door 
jamb listening. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        TOM 
          In the contingencies filing cabinet. There are 
          copies of something called the London Emergency 
        Services Liaison Major Incident Procedure Manual. 
                Could you distribute them to everyone? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Right. 
                                (She hesitates) 
                                What s Turnstile? 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 17 

 
And TOM hesitates. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Oh let s slide along the learning curve. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Turnstile is an alternative seat of Government. 
          It s under the Cotswold hills, between Bath and 
          Corsham. In an attack on the country the Cabinet 
          and 250 officials and scientists would be moved 
                                        there. 
 
                                        SAM 
                              Would you two go? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Only the Director General is on the list. The rest 
                              of us must make do. 
 
                            SAM (Frowns. To Danny) 
          What if the rest of us die and they ve got no 
                                  country to run? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I don t know, running a country with no people 
                    sounds like a politician s dream. 
 
He grins. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Danny get the big map set up. 
                            (Calls across to Zoe) 
Zoe, something else I want you to do - keep a log of events 
and our responses. Right? 
 
                                  ZOE (stroppy) 
                                    If I must. 
 
A sympathetic look from BRIDGET to ZOE. 
 
DANNY is putting up a big map of London for all on the Grid to 
see. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Colin. Break out the EPCUs. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                  The EP er... 
 
                                        HARRY 
              The Emergency Protective Clothing Units. 
 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 18 

COLIN blank. 
 
                                        TOM 
        In the lockers at the back of the forgery suite. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                    Oh. Sorry. 
 
A look from COLIN:  oh God I messed up.  
 
                                        TOM 
                          Help him would you Phil? 
 
                                        PHIL 
                                        Sure. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0935 
 
Everyone is putting on silvery suits. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 1. 0936 
 
HARRY is looking out through windows of his office at the 
scene outside. Some are laughing. 
 
HARRY looks serious. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0938 
 
TOM, already in his suit. ZOE is struggling with hers. SAM 
distributing copies of the LESLP handbook - it s a 53 page 
booklet,  Procedural Manual  printed on its cover. 
 
            TOM (Taking a manual and opening it at once) 
                    Get in your protective gear, Sam. 
 
                                        SAM 
                    It s all loose and it smells... 
 
A sharp look at SAM. 
 
MALCOLM approaches wearing his hood up and a gas mask over his 
face. 
 
                  MALCOLM (Indistinct through his mask) 
                        These suits are totally... 
 
TOM indicates  take off mask.  MALCOLM does. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
        These suits are of course totally inadequate. They 
            seem to be low level anti-radiation kit with 
          iodine filters in the masks for dust. If there 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 19 

        were any kind of chemical, let alone biological, 
          threat they d be useless. I mean we should have 
            integrally sealed barrier suits with breathing 
                                      apparatus. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Malcolm - 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Sorry but if we re going to take this seriously... 
                                          ? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    All right - 
                                  (to everyone) 
                          Let s forget them. Danny. 
 
He takes DANNY aside to talk to him. 
 
Everyone stops. Then they are climbing out of the suits 
enthusiastically. 
 
ZOE picks up the earphones again. 
 
GO TO: MARK and MALCOLM, removing their suits. 
 
                                        MARK 
              Is your boss on top of this, technically? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Absolutely. 
 
TOM comes back. 
 
ZOE is adjusting dials, confused. She quickly takes off her 
headphones. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Radio four s gone off the air. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Submarine warning. 
 
                                  TOM (Turning) 
                          What did you say, Ruth? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        It s a thing GCHQ set up, for nuclear submarines 
        at sea. If the country s under serious threat of 
            attack, the Today programme will go off air. 
 




 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 20 

                                        DANNY 
                          I don t think it s that. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  Tom, the woman in the duty room... 
 
ON A MONITOR: DOT is pulling wires out from behind equipment. 
Her hands are shaking uncontrollably. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    She s pulling the comm. circuits. 
 
She has taken out an electronic unit and is unplugging leads. 
As she does this, the computers on the Grid go down. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Dot listen to me! 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Everything goes through that room. She could cut 
                              us off completely. 
 
                                        DOT 
        Don t worry, don t worry - I m sorting it out... 
 
                                        TOM 
            Dot. What s happening on the other floors? C 
                                      section... 
 
And she looks at the camera, her face wet with sweat, hair 
matted on her forehead. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
      We need to be connected to the Metropolitan Police 
            Central Control Room. Can you put us through? 
 
All of them watching her. Then she stands up on the table and 
reaches toward the camera. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Don t do that! 
 
MONITOR: Her face is near the camera. The camera wobbles as 
she wrenches it. Then the monitor goes to static. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        Look I don t want to, but... what if this isn t a 
                                        drill? 
 
No one wants to answer that. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    The telly. 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 21 

 
Everyone rushes to a screen, crowding round it. RUTH switches 
it on. 
 
A reporter is running away along a street jammed with cars, 
other people are running, the camera moves about erratically. 
 
                              STUDIO ANCHOR (V.O.) 
            Stuart? Can you tell us what s happening? Can 
                                        you... 
 
                              REPORTER (breathless) 
              Smoke, and I... People are... Something... 
 
And the screen snows. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                      Try BBC. 
 
Snow on the screen. RUTH flicks through more channels. The 
power on the Grid goes down completely now. 
 
                                  COLIN (cont d) 
          What s doing this? What s happening out there? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                          It s got to be technical. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                    I ll check the circuit breakers. 
 
The group breaks up. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1001 
 
COLIN, MALCOLM and PHIL have the tables piled up, ceiling 
panels off and cables hanging down. With the only light coming 
from some practicals and work lights, they try to establish 
some kind of communication. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1133 
 
TOM, ZOE, and DANNY come into the computer room. 
 
MONITOR: An image, an indistinct yellowy figure, is just 
discernible in the interference snow. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Is this on the cable link? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Somehow, yes. 
 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 22 

                                TOM (Calls out) 
                                Everyone in here. 
                                      (To Zoe) 
                                  And get Harry. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1137 
 
Everyone crowds into the computer room. 
 
ON THE TERMINAL SCREEN: via a camera on a laptop, a figure in 
a full breathing apparatus - breathing mask, bottles on his 
back - all covered by a bright yellow suit with a massive 
hood. No eyes can be seen through the dark glass visor. The 
figure fills the screen. 
 
ZOE and HARRY come into the room. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Can we talk to him? 
 
                                        COLIN 
            Don t know if he s got a mike in his suit... 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Where do you think he is? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Looks like a vehicle. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Well how do we communicate? 
 
The figure moves away. The blurry image of the inside of a 
van. White shiny walls, stacks of electronic equipment. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            It s some kind of van. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Could be the mobile incident control room. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Zoe, what do we know about that?... 
 
A glare from her. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                        Zoe? 
 
ZOE examines the manual and goes onto professional auto-pilot. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Well it s always sent to the site of a major 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 23 

          incident. It s equipped with a small lab for on 
        site analysis, radios, something called Computer 
                                Aided Despatch. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        That s how they re reaching us. Via satellite into 
                      the Government cable network. 
 
The figure reappears holding a pad. On it there is written: 
 P Square  
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        P... 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Parliament Square. 
 
TO THE SCREEN: 
 
The figure is holding up a second page. On it are written the 
capital letters: VX. 
 
                                DANNY (shocked) 
                              VX - not the gas... 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  Oh dear God. 
 
The screen goes blank. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                    Lost it... 
 
                                    TOM (Angry) 
                              Then get it back. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1153 
 
LONGSHOT: Looking across the Grid towards the meeting room. 
The lights surge back on. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 1153 
 
TOM, HARRY, RUTH, ZOE, DANNY, COLIN, MALCOLM, SAM others 
crowded in. 
 
RUTH is about to brief them but - for the first time - she is 
upset. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        VX - 
                                  (She falters) 
                  Silly me, it s just the thought... 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 24 

 
                                        HARRY 
        It s all right, Ruth. Sam will brief us. Let s be 
                absolutely clear what this stuff does. 
 
                                        SAM 
            Well. It s a nerve gas. This is its formula. 
 
The formula is displayed on the meeting room s screen: 
  CH3CH2O-P(O)(CH3)-SCH2CH2N(C3H7)2 
 
A moment with them staring at the meaningless letters and 
numbers. But MALCOLM understands. 
 
                                MALCOLM (In awe) 
          Look at the chlorine bonding in that. Makes it 
                            almost indestructible. 
 
                    SAM (Consulting notes. Nervous.) 
            VX was first developed by us, at Porton Down 
          Wiltshire in 1952. Where it was first tested. It 
        was found to be a grade double A effective weapon. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          That means devastating. 
 
                                        SAM 
          The British traded the VX technology with the 
            United States for information on the H bomb. 
 
                                  MALCOLM (low) 
                                Oh dear oh dear. 
 
As SAM tells them about the gas, CUT to those listening, their 
faces become grave as she goes on. 
 
                                        SAM 
        It is odourless. Its molecules are also adhesive. 
      It is virtually impossible to remove them from the 
        surfaces they stick to. In its liquid form it is a 
              green, viscous slime. It stops nerve ends 
                        communicating with each other. 
          (She takes a beat, finding this more and more 
                                      difficult.) 
          VX is absorbed through the skin or the eyes. It 
          acts almost immediately on the victim. It takes 
        between an hour and two hours to result in death. 
                                    The LD... 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        LD...? 
 



 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 25 

                                        DANNY 
                                  Lethal dose. 
 
                          SAM (Grateful to Danny) 
              Yes. The lethal dose is as little as ten 
                            milligrams for humans. 
                  (Relying more and more on the text) 
          The only known countries to possess VX are the 
        United States, France and Russia. Britain, after 
              inventing it, abandoned stocks in favour of 
                              thermonuclear weapons. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Is there an antidote? 
 
                              SAM (Turns papers) 
            Atropine. It is itself highly toxic. For it to 
          have an effect, it has to be injected directly 
                                into the heart. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            It s one sweet weapon. 
 
ZOE looks at him, horrified. He catches her eye. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
                  I was just thinking technically... 
 
                                        TOM 
        Right. If we re dealing with VX gas, what we need 
          to try and do is make sure the Grid is sealed, 
                          tight as we can make it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        The air conditioning s down. The air may get bad 
                              but it s all ours. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                    What about the water in the loos? 
 
They look at him. 
 
                                  COLIN (cont d) 
        The water s from tanks on the roof. Exposed to the 
                air. The stuff could get in up there. 
                              (Loses confidence) 
                      If we re going to get picky. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Then we close the loos down and set up emergency 
                      toilets in the stationery room. 
 



 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 26 

                                        COLIN 
                              No I didn t mean... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1228 
 
MALCOLM and MARK come into the room. All - but for HARRY -are 
crowded before the monitor. Fuzzy, the picture of the van has 
appeared again. It clears. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I must talk to him. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
            Put the satellite signal through the backup 
                                      router. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              Tried that but... 
 
Flicks a switch. 
 
At once a rush of sound. Heavy breathing of the figure in the 
vehicle. 
 
                                  COLIN (cont d) 
                                        Wow. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Can you hear me? 
 
The figure moves towards the camera. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            What exploded? A car? 
 
Shakes head. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                              Bigger than a car? 
 
Nods. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                    A lorry a... 
 
Nods. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                Did some of it survive the explosion? 
 
A nod. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 27 

        We really need to know more about that lorry. Can 
              you go outside and look at the wreckage? 
 
A shake of the head. The figure lifts an air cylinder, puts it 
down then moves aside and points at a thick tube. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                What s he mean? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        He s linked to an air supply in the vehicle, his 
                            cylinder must be empty. 
 
SAM comes in. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                What s going on? 
 
TOM shoots out a hand -  be quiet.  
 
                                        TOM 
          We must find out who is behind this attack. We 
        must know more about the vehicle they used. Do you 
                                      understand? 
 
The figure on the screen hunches. Then pulls at the mask and 
hood, tearing off equipment. 
 
It s not a man, it s a woman with long blonde hair. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  You ve asked her to breath the air. 
 
                                    TOM (Sotto) 
                                  Sam be quiet. 
                                (To the screen) 
                                What s your name? 
 
She is both scared and angry. And a natural talker. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                            Stephanie Mills. Steph. 
 
TOM about to say something but she is talking. 
 
                                STEPHANIE (cont d) 
          The air cylinder on my suit, it was only half 
        full. I ve been on the fixed supply. It s like a 
        farce, the tube doesn t reach the driver s seat so 
          I haven t been able to .. To... I mean it takes 
            the end of the world for you to realise that 
                        nothing bloody well works! 
 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 28 

                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Absolutely! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                What s your job? 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                              I m a fire fighter. 
 
                                        TOM 
          And your major incident training s up to speed? 
 
                              STEPHANIE (Offended) 
                              Course it bloody is. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Stephanie, Steph... The lorry. 
 
He hesitates, she s on to what he means. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
            You re thinking... If the cab s still intact 
                                  what s in it. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Yes. Anything that can help us find out who did 
                                        this. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
          Well, it s part of my job isn t it. Investigate 
                        the causes of the incident. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        You re the only one who can. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                              Who are you anyway? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m the Emergency Executive Officer at Thames 
                                        House. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
        M.I.5. James Bond behind a desk, getting others to 
                              do the dirty work? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    That s me. 
 
A beat. 
 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 29 

                                      STEPHANIE 
                                  See you then. 
 
She moves across the van and is gone - light fills it, the 
back door is open. 
 
                                        COLIN 
            You just asked someone to go to their death. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
COLIN, a touch of fear in the way he looks at TOM, who stands 
up and leaves. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Maybe the gas molecules wouldn t be in the air any 
        more. Just on the ground... and she s still in a 
                                  protective suit. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE GRID - DAY 1. 1231 
 
TOM comes out of the computer room and goes over to RUTH. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Can the data base help us at all with this gas? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Not really, it s available all over the place, 
            there are a lot of old Soviet stocks on the 
                                      market... 
 
The lights in the Grid go off. 
 
Short cries of:  What? Oh God...   over them MALCOLM shouting: 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
            Don t worry the emergency generator will kick 
                                        in... 
 
Greeny lights come on casting lurid shadows amongst the desks 
and equipment of the Grid. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
                      There are stand-by hand lamps. 
 
He goes into the forgery suite and comes out with powerful 
hand lamps. He distributes them and people are turning them 
on. 
 
(NB: from here these lamps - casting noirish shadows - are 
used when the main lighting is down and the greenish light is 



 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 30 

on. For the rest of the episode the lighting is unpredictable: 
sometimes the regular lighting cuts in, sometimes it fails.) 
 
And COLIN is at the computer room door. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                    She s back. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1234 
 
All before the monitor. STEPHANIE is looking into the camera. 
She looks harrowed by what she has seen. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                                They re all dead. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Did... 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
              They re dead. They re lying about dead... 
 
                                        TOM 
                Did you see the vehicle that exploded? 
 
She nods. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
      It was... white. I think. The top and one side was 
        blown out. But it had a sign on the side. Planets. 
                      And it said  Pluto Removals.  
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    Oh Heaven. 
 
She leaves fast. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Stephanie, thank you. Please put your suit back 
                                        on. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
            Oh don t think there s any point. Is there. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Yes of course there is. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
        The House of Commons is just outside. If they re 
            all dead I can just wander in. Have a drink. 
            They re all drunks in the House of Commons so 
                  there re lots of bars, aren t there! 
 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 31 

                                        TOM 
                    Put the suit back on, Stephanie. 
 
A moment while - through the technological window - they stare 
at each. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                                What s your name? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Tom. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
            Want to come and have a drink with me, Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
          Why? Scary place the House of Commons, do you 
                                        think? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I think it is today, Steph. Look you ve got to 
        protect yourself as best you can. Be professional. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
        Like you, you mean? Sending me out to breathe VX? 
 
A horrible silence. 
 
                                STEPHANIE (cont d) 
                          Do your best for people. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      We will. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
        I m off for that drink. I ll raise a glass to say 
                                good luck, Tom. 
 
She leans forward quickly. The screen goes dead. 
 
They are all sitting still. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                What s Ruth...? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1240 
 
RUTH is at her desk. All are gathered around. 
 



 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 32 

                                        RUTH 
        It was in the loony file. And it showed up on the 
        weekly A routine Special Branch trawl of websites. 
      We mentioned it in the weekly report, just to keep 
        the numbers up. But then it struck me. Do you see? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Do I? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        The Group signed itself Patmos. The Greek Island 
        where St. John wrote Revelation. The book of the 
                              end of the world. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    What threat did the group make? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        To bomb ten British cities. 
 
Hits a key. 
 
On her screen - large - the names of cities scroll down: 
LONDON, EDINBURGH, CARDIFF, LEEDS, NOTTINGHAM, BIRMINGHAM, 
BATH, COVENTRY, NEWCASTLE, PORTSMOUTH. 
 
GO TO: Shocked faces. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
          It s the usual survivalist fantasy. Destroy the 
            cities, the pure in heart will survive in the 
                                        hills. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Did they mention gas? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Oh yes. Here s the text. 
 
Passes him a paper. He reads. 
 
                                        TOM 
                   The British Whore s Last Breath.  
 
                                        ZOE 
        It s real, isn t it. After all the warnings about 
        attacks on Britain, It s happened. We ve known it 
          was coming. The government has known. Small pox 
          injections, regional disaster centres being set 
                                        up... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            All too bloody late. 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 33 

 
                                        ZOE 
        But the moment it happened... I didn t believe it 
                                          - 
 
But she s interrupted by COLIN. 
 
                                COLIN (serious) 
          I ve bypassed the system, got into the London 
              Traffic Congestion cameras. It s a bit... 
 
Many screens in the room flicker. 
 
And the image of Hungerford bridge through a CCTV camera 
flickers onto the monitors in the room. 
 
The cars and a few vans, lorries and buses are still. Some are 
at odd angles. The bridge is packed. There are no signs of 
people. A bird flies across the scene. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          That s Hungerford Bridge. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I was having a cup of coffee near there, four 
                                    hours ago. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                    The signal s coming and going... 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
            Oh God... there could be people we know out 
                                      there... 
 
                                        MARK 
              Yes, we must do all we can to contact our 
                                      families... 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                  I haven t said but it s my daughter. 
                                      (A beat) 
          She s in Guy s hospital. At least let s try to 
                find out if the hospital is affected... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        MARK 
            Don t you understand? Her little girl s out 
                                      there... 
 
                                        ZOE 
      My father lives in Battersea. Can t I just somehow 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 34 

                              find out if he s ok? 
 
A murmur of agreement amongst people on the Grid. 
 
                                        MARY 
            Let us at least try to reach our families. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Maybe it doesn't matter. We may as well just walk 
          out. Get home somehow before the VX affects us. 
 
All are still, listening to her. And she says what they are 
all thinking. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
        I mean - we should be with our loved ones. Even if 
                                  we ve only... 
                  (Shame at revealing her loneliness) 
                                  ... got a cat. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    No. We don t discuss this again. 
 
                                        SAM 
      It was just a normal Friday morning, then suddenly 
                              it wasn t at all. 
 
Before DANNY can reply: 
 
                      TOM (Calling across the Grid) 
                                        Danny. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          What about your family? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  My Mum s away. Singing in Scotland. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  I didn t know your Mum was a singer. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Gospel choir. Your folks, Scots?... 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    Morningside. 
 
Danny does not know... 
 
                                  SAM (cont d) 
                        The posh bit of Edinburgh. 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 35 

 
                                        TOM 
                                    Danny! Now. 
 
DANNY and SAM are looking at each other seriously. He touches 
her hand and goes to join TOM. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            Everyone gather please. 
 
They do. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                              So. Comments? Ruth? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Well we know the security risk to the country and 
                            it couldn t be worse. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              We know who did it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          But how do we get them? 
 
                                        SAM 
          That s right, we re stuck in here imagining... 
 
                                        TOM 
        So we need communications. Malcolm, Colin what s 
                                    our status? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Well when Dot freaked out in the duty room there 
          were some things she pulled and some things she 
                                    turned on. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Like? 
 
MALCOLM about to speak, COLIN leaps in. 
 
                                        COLIN 
          All internal and external phones are out. The 
                            satellite link s gone. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                So we can t... 
 
                                        COLIN 
            Can t speak to anyone in or out the building, 
            can t contact anyone by e mail or the net. 
 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 36 

HARRY has appeared in the doorway. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  I could go down to the control room. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            It ll be locked down. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  And anyway no one leaves the Grid. 
 
He goes. 
 
                              DANNY (low, to Zoe) 
                      What s the matter with Harry? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                How do you mean? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                He s so distant. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  What comms have we got left Malcolm? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        The cable link s still working. Though it s dodgy. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Keep trying to get through. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
          We need to move to a new location, an ops room 
                                    that works. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          And how would we do that? 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
          Wait... another hour? Then take a chance the gas 
                                  has dispersed. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Ruth? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        That would be too dangerous. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Right. We all keep working. First thing - brief 
                                Paul Dunbarton. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 1303 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 37 

 
TOM and DANNY before the monitor. All the others - but for 
HARRY - crowd in behind them to listen. 
 
PAUL DUNBARTON is on the monitor. He looks haggard and 
nervous. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        So... 
                                  (He hesitates) 
                                So this is real. 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
                What do you mean? Of course it s real! 
 
They are all staring at Tom. Go CLOSE to Zoe. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I m sorry I... 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
              Quinn? Quinn what s the matter with you? 
 
                                        TOM 
            I thought this... this was an Eerie exercise. 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        Well if you think that you better step down. Make 
                        someone else EmEx Officer. 
 
                                    MARK (Low) 
                              Nail on the head. 
 
Malcolm looks at him sharply. Tom takes a deep breath. 
 
                                        TOM 
        There s a serious threat to cities throughout the 
          country. The group responsible is called Patmos, 
              their weapon s VX gas. We need to contact 
                                    Turnstile... 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        Tom. Tom listen. The Prime Minister s party didn t 
                            make it to Turnstile. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                DUNBARTON (cont d) 
        We got reports of three helicopters crashing near 
          Chipping Norton. The VX must have got to them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What about the Royal Family? 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 38 

 
                                      DUNBARTON 
          We think they may be lost too. Their helicopter 
        took off from London to pick them up and take them 
          to Windsor. The pilot must have been infected. 
 
A beat. They are all trying to take this in. 
 
                              MALCOLM (Awestruck) 
                The country s like a body with no head. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Tell me, did the Government declare a State of 
                                      Emergency? 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
        That was going to happen when the Prime Minister 
                              got to Turnstile. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      So one hasn t been declacred. 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
                                  I m sorry I... 
 
His hand is shaking he pulls it out of the camera s view. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Oh God. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Paul? What s the matter? 
 
                    DUNBARTON (His hand is shaking.) 
                I think I ll take a walk in St James s. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              No don t do that. 
                                      (A beat) 
                      He s infected and he knows it. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Paul, other cities are in danger. We need a 
                            decision to declare a... 
 
                                      DUNBARTON 
                                      Goodbye. 
 
A hand forward. The link goes dead. 
 
                                        MARK 
                      So what the hell do we do now? 
 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 39 

                                        TOM 
            We must contact the other cities. Malcolm? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          The cable link runs to the capitals: Cardiff, 
                                      Edinburgh. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Do what you can. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                                That s pathetic. 
 
                          TOM (To Mark and Bridget) 
        Get anything we ve got to eat - chocolate bars the 
          lot - and put it over there. Divide it up into 
                                      rations. 
 
                                        MARK 
          I don t think lunch is our immediate problem, do 
          you? I d have thought the Prime Minister being 
            presumed dead and this secret service being 
        absolutely incapable of doing anything about it is 
                                  what matters. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Just collect what we ve got to eat. Phil, Mary, 
                                    help them. 
 
          For a moment TOM and MARK glare at each other. 
                                        DANNY 
 
Just do it mate. 
 
It passes. Lights flicker. 
 
From this point on MALCOLM, COLIN and PHIL are taking panels 
off the wall from around the pods. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1309 
 
They are gathered before the map. Not HARRY. Lights still 
flickering, then resume to normal. Everyone looks up in 
relief. 
 
                                        TOM 
              So. We are half a mile from the point of 
                                      explosion. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  Ground zero. 
 
A beat as the grim phrase hits them all. 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 40 

 
                                        TOM 
                  Has this gas ever been used before? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        No. Except for the Sarin on the Tokyo subway but 
          Sarin s a much, much weaker member of the same 
                                      family. 
 
                                        TOM 
        And if it has reached us here at Thames House, how 
                            wide is it spreading? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        Well the footprint would... 
 
With a marker she goes to the board. 
 
CLOSE UP: The map as she draws. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
        We are here. So if we project at least another... 
                        quarter of a mile beyond us? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                  The wind s from the northwest today. 
                                    (Embarrassed) 
          I always listen to the forecast. For the garden. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        So at a conservative estimate, the affected area 
                                is at least... 
 
She draws a tear-shaped area. It is frightening large. 
 
                                    DANNY (Low) 
                                        Hell. 
 
                                        RUTH 
      It could be much bigger. A VX cannister of say ten 
              kilograms in a liquid state under pressure, 
          exploded properly so it converts to a gas state, 
              would be as effective as the Atom bomb on 
                                      Hiroshima. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Killing how many? 
 
                                        RUTH 
      Oh I d have thought during this first hour... nigh 
                    on a million have been infected. 
 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 41 

                                        TOM 
                                      A million. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    How far could the wind blow it? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          By the end of the day... three quarters of the 
                            South East of England? 
 
                                        SAM 
                              Over all our homes? 
 
A BEAT, as this all sinks in. The lights flicker off again. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 1. 1316 
 
HARRY is staring at the wall. TOM comes in. 
 
He is taken aback by Harry s inertia. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Are things unravelling? 
 
                                        TOM 
          The Prime Minister and the cabinet died before 
        they reached Turnstile. The Royal Family could be 
                                    lost too. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Heroic times. 
 
HARRY looks up at him, watery eyed. TOM is taken aback. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Harry? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Now that the disaster we have anticipated for so 
                long is with us, what is your strategy? 
 
                                        TOM 
      If the alternative seat of Government isn t there, 
          until we hear to the contrary, we ll have to be 
                              the command centre. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        In effect, you ll be taking over the Government. 
        How very Oliver Cromwell of you, Tom. Is... anyone 
                          out there feeling unwell? 
 
TOM, taken aback. 
 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 42 

                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              I went to the loo, before you closed it. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I won t ask who else did. Morale may not take it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Right. 
 
For a moment they are looking straight at each other. Then TOM 
leaves. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1318 
 
An alarm sounds from a distant building. There is a small 
surge of power but the lights remain off. 
 
TOM is coming out of HARRY s office. He is tearing the JIGSAW 
document into three sections. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Ruth, Danny, Zoe: speed read this. I want to know 
          chains of command when Turnstile fails. Fast as 
                                      you can. 
 
He tosses them the sections. They take it and are reading at 
once. He goes into the computer room. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    Sorry Tom we can t get anything. 
 
                                        TOM 
                We ve got to talk to the other cities. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1447 
 
Things are deteriorating on the Grid. Desks are untidy. 
Screwed paper cups and papers are discarded on the floor. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          We re going to have to ration the water in the 
                        cooler, it s going down fast. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Then do it. 
 
Disgruntled, MARK and BRIDGET are emptying two cardboard boxes 
of chocolate bars, sandwiches, the odd apple and orange. 
 
TOM is waiting by the readers. He looks at his watch. 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 43 

 
There is now a sign above the stationery room door:  Ritz 
Cloakrooms . COLIN comes out, sheepishly, closing the door. He 
holds his nose, shaking his head. 
 
TOM takes out his mobile. He tries VICKY again. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        She ll be somewhere safe. I mean whoever it is... 
                                      will be. 
 
DANNY finishes reading. He looks across at SAM who is facing a 
wall, looking at her hands. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Do you mind... 
 
Indicates SAM. TOM gives the faintest of signs. 
 
DANNY goes over to SAM. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                              What s the matter? 
 
                                        SAM 
          It s weird, you never hear the traffic from in 
                here. But now you really can t hear it. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah. 
 
                                        SAM 
        I said I d come on the barge, with you and Colin. 
        But the canals will have VX in them now. According 
          to Ruth s database, it could be for years. I... 
          only said I d go on the barge  cos of you. Was 
                                      that ok? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Yeah. Yeah, very much ok. I better... 
 
He goes. 
 
DANNY rejoins TOM, ZOE and RUTH. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So! At this moment who is running the country? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      No one. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  It s a mess. 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 44 

 
                                        RUTH 
        There are meant to be regional Government Disaster 
          Centres but they re still in the planning stage. 
        If Turnstile s not working, there doesn t seem to 
                    be any obvious chain of command. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It s just a chaos of diagrams. There s even one 
        for moving the PM s car during a nuclear attack. 
                    But if Turnstile s not working... 
 
                                        RUTH 
          It s the headless chicken scenario. The Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff have always feared it - no one at 
                          the top to give orders. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Have you found how you declare martial law? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Yeah er... 
 
DANNY leaves through and tears out a couple of pages. TOM 
snatches them and is gone. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                    Mission man. 
 
MALCOLM steps out from the computer room. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                Tom, in here... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1458 
 
TOM, MALCOLM, COLIN. The monitor screens are alive. An office 
behind a man in his late thirties. JOHN MACLEISH. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                  We just got this. Edinburgh section. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Who am I talking to? 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
              John Macleish EmEx Officer. And you are? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Tom Quinn EmEx Thames House. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 



 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 45 

        We cannot contact Downing Street, or Turnstile or 
          any of the London Emergency services. BBC Radio 
          have gone off the air. There s panic here. What 
                                can you tell us? 
 
                                        TOM 
        There is a major threat, repeat a major threat to 
          Edinburgh and other cities. You must immediately 
                          evacuate the City centre. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                  And just how am I to expedite that? 
 
TOM is trying to keep clear but feeling the strain. He 
consults the Jigsaw document. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Set up a major incident control room co-ordinating 
            emergency services and the Army. Police - with 
        troops if needed - must begin the immediate arrest 
      of anyone suspected of belonging to a group called 
                                      Patmos. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                              On what authority? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Under the 2001 Anti-Terrorism and Crime Act 
          article five of the European Convention on human 
        rights is suspended. The police can arrest anyone 
                they suspect of terrorist involvement. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
        The declaration of a state of emergency can only 
                be done by the Government of the day. 
 
                                    DANNY (Low) 
                            A barrack room lawyer. 
 
                                        TOM 
            The Government of the day no longer exists. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
      We must wait for instructions from some authority. 
            Or else we will be descending into anarchy. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            We ll get back to you. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1512 
 




 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 46 

There are signs of the Grid becoming more disorderly. The food 
has been messily chopped up and shared. 
 
They are debating the situation. 
 
                                        TOM 
      We don t have long. Edinburgh could be attacked at 
            any moment. But I want you to agree to this. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          If it s a choice between anarchy or death I ll 
                                  take anarchy. 
 
                                        MARK 
          A secret service declaring a state of emergency? 
                                That s treason. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          If the Royal Family s dead, whom is the treason 
                                      against? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Do it. My mum s in Edinburgh. 
 
SAM puts her hand on his arm in comfort. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
        I thought we weren t allowed to let personal life 
                              influence decisions. 
 
                                        SAM 
          What matters is that people believe us, on the 
                  streets. When the orders are given. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                              Yes Sam, spot on. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              So are we for this? 
 
                                        MARK 
                                  Absolutely not. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                    You re fiddling while Rome burns. 
 
                                        MARK 
        Yes the Emperor Nero? Your EmEx is in the grip of 
                      some kind of power fantasy... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                I don t think so. 
 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 47 

                                        MARK 
          Dumb stupid loyalty is not what is needed here, 
                                        Danny. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                It s loyalty will get us through this. 
 
                                        MARK 
          No it s clear thinking, and trying to take over 
                  the Government ain t clear thought! 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Well, what do you say? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            I say... fiddle on. What else is there to do? 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
                So we have a state of emergency. Yes. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1517 
 
                              MACLEISH (Shocked) 
                                      No way. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I outrank you. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                        I very much beg your pardon? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I am EmEx London, you are EmEx Scotland. London 
                              outranks Edinburgh. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                              I don t accept that. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You stone-headed bastard! Declare the emergency, 
                              evacuate the city. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                              On your head be it. 
 
                                    DANNY (Low) 
                                    Thank God. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1619 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 48 

 
TOM is looking around. 
 
SAM is crouched over RUTH s computer. 
 
ZOE, earphones on, is still trying to catch a radio station. 
DANNY is banging on the floor in Morse code with a broom. 
 
MALCOLM and COLIN are pulling up floor panels. 
 
MARY and PHIL are counting cups of water. They pour a cup then 
pour the water back into the cooler. TOM goes over to them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Phil, Mary... what s it look like? 
 
                                        MARY 
                              About two cups each. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    That all? 
 
                                        PHIL 
                                     Fraid so. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I want you to monitor what people drink. Quarter 
                          of a cup a go, no more. 
 
                                        MARY 
                                        Right. 
 
                                        PHIL 
                            This saving the world? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Every little bit. 
 
BRIDGET and MARK are talking in a corner. TOM looks across at 
them, then at HARRY s office. RUTH is in there. HARRY has his 
back to her. 
 
TOM realises something is wrong. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 1. 1621 
 
TOM comes into HARRY s office to find RUTH in a state of 
shock, rooted to the spot. TOM stops. 
 
HARRY speaks, his back curved. His tone is downbeat, odd. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 49 

          honest, Whatsoever things are just, Whatsoever 
          things are pure, Whatsoever things are lovely, 
          whatsoever things are of good report; if there be 
        any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on 
                                  these things. 
 
TOM circles round to HARRY s front. He sees he is trembling, 
mucus is running from his nose. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Go to your station and stay there. 
 
RUTH leaves the office. Tom lets the blinds down over the 
windows. 
 
HARRY looks up at TOM, helpless. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I didn t think it was... the real thing. Forgive 
                                      me, I... 
 
                                        TOM 
        It s all right, Harry. Look, there is an antidote. 
              If there s any way of getting it I will. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Not possible. And you know it. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I m so sorry Harry. I m going to have to 
          quarantine your office. Sorry, I can t even shake 
                                    your hand. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  You ll need the keys to lock me in. 
 
HARRY looks at a desk drawer. 
 
TOM gets the keys. 
 
He goes out of the office and locks the door. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1624 
 
He turns and looks at RUTH who is standing at her desk. He 
goes over to her. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                So it s in here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 50 

                                        RUTH 
                                  Shall we tell? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                      You mean we just leave Harry? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What else can we do? 
 
                                        RUTH 
              It s a terrible decision, Mr. Tom Quinn. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Is it, Ruth? I can t tell any more. 
 
He is near the edge. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
          They look at you. Their eyes are either full of 
          dumb hate or dumb trust. What am I going to do, 
                                        Ruth? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        What are you saying, on the head of the King, let 
                            all the sorrows lie? 
 
                                  TOM (Whisper) 
        I m meant to be EmEx officer but I don t know what 
                            to do, Ruth. I don t. 
 
He turns aside. 
 
She pulls him back. Close to him. She has a vindictive edge in 
her voice. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Oh no, you don t suddenly go all moody and 
        sensitive. That s for us, we re the troops. You re 
        the leader and leaders don t have feelings, as you 
                          well know, Mr. Tom Quinn. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
      If that s trying to comfort me, it s a strange way 
                                  of doing it. 
 
A cry from inside the computer room: 
 



 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 51 

                                      MALCOLM 
                                    Tom! Tom! 
 
TOM runs to the computer room. All follow. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1629 
 
JOHN MACLEISH is on the monitor. He looks shattered. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
        There s been an explosion in the Morningside area 
                                  of the city. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                  No no oh no. 
 
DANNY holds her. 
 
                                        TOM 
          You must isolate yourselves at once. Get to the 
                            disaster centre bunker. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
          They haven t finished building it, didn t you 
                                        hear? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Start quarantining the city. Just do it... 
 
The monitor begins to snow. 
 
                                      MACLEISH 
                                And how am I...? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  ... MacLeish? 
 
The monitor goes blank. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            The cable link s dead. 
 
DANNY turns away and closes his eyes. Tears are streaming down 
SAM s face. 
 
They are all sitting still before the dead monitor. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0700 
 
Dawn: The Grid is now wrecked. 
 
Chairs are up on desks and DANNY is standing on one, banging 
his broom handle on the ceiling. 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 52 

 
ZOE is listening through headphones. She takes them off and 
throws them down. 
 
DANNY jumps down, gets onto another chair and carries on. It 
has become obsessive. 
 
                                  RUTH (To Tom) 
            Eight hours since we heard anything at all. 
                Saturday morning - I should be shopping. 
                                      (closer) 
                              What about Harry? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      We ve got to leave him alone. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          If he s, I mean... shouldn t we give him some 
                              water or something? 
 
                                        TOM 
                    We daren t break his quarantine. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        No. 
 
RUTH turns away, ground down by this. 
 
MALCOLM and COLIN are lying on the floor by a wall. Using 
screwdrivers they have pulled up sections of the floor. The 
plaster lies in rubble across the Grid floor. Cables are 
exposed. They have electrical boxes and equipment with which 
they test the wires and the cables they discover. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  When are we going to get some sleep? 
 
                            MALCOLM (ignoring him) 
                                Dead. Next one. 
 
LOOK AT: The map. The footprint of the VX gas has been greatly 
expanded. 
 
There is now a map of the UK beside it. The threatened cities 
are all marked. A crossed out shape spreads from Edinburgh. 
Dotted lines project the gas clouds from the other cities. 
 
DANNY is on a desk with a broom. He is knocking Morse code on 
the ceiling, then listening. 
 
Nothing. 
 
He climbs down off the desk. He thumps on the floor. 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 53 

 
                                        SAM 
                            What s he signalling? 
 
                                        RUTH 
         Anyone for tea?  Didn t you do Morse code in your 
                                      training? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          The old skills die out. 
 
                                        SAM 
                What s the point in an electronic age? 
 
                                        RUTH 
              What electronics? They ve all failed us. 
 
SAM goes away and sits, facing a wall. 
 
              ZOE (Looking at the map of the country.) 
        My Aunt Sylvie lives in Bristol. The winds coming 
            up the Severn. The VX would go all over the 
                Midlands. And if they did Birmingham... 
 
DANNY gives up his Morse code rapping. He goes and sits with 
SAM. 
 
GO TO: COLIN and MALCOLM. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            Love birds over there. 
 
COLIN is resentful of DANNY with SAM. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              It s unprofessional. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        Human nature. In moments of extreme stress we turn 
                                    to nookie. 
 
COLIN looks at him. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
              Well some do. Others take it out on walls. 
 
He stabs a screw driver into the plaster. 
 
GO TO: SAM and DANNY, who are leaning in close to each other, 
smiling and talking quietly. 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 54 

 
BRIDGET and MARK are in a corner, talking low to PHIL and 
MARY. MARY shakes her head and leaves the group. 
 
TOM goes to MALCOLM and COLIN. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  How you doing? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  Nothing s live. 
 
                            TOM (Confidentially) 
                              Look, do something. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                How d you mean? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Invent something. To talk to the outside world. It 
                              doesn t matter what. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            You mean for morale... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Sh. Do it now. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Right... 
 
MALCOLM and COLIN look at each other, perplexed. 
 
TOM goes to ZOE and RUTH, watched by MARK and BRIDGET. 
 
                                        TOM 
                What do you think those two are up to? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                We ll know now. 
 
BRIDGET and MARK come over to TOM. They speak so everyone on 
the Grid can hear. 
 
                                        MARK 
                        We demand to talk to Harry. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                              We ve got to leave. 
 
                                        MARK 
            Maybe your superior will take control of this 
                                      situation. 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 55 

 
                                        TOM 
                                  Harry is sick. 
 
And everyone is awake and alert and frozen still. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                          He has the VX symptoms. 
 
Shock. A beat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Harry s in there? Dying? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Dear God. 
 
                                        SAM 
          Can t we help him, do something for him, can t 
                                        we... 
 
She peters out into silence. And they are all silent. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                    How contagious is it, you said? 
 
                            RUTH (Furious at her) 
              If you really want to know it takes a few 
                  molecules. Straight through the skin. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    Look, I saw Harry go to the loo. 
 
                                        MARK 
          It may not be that, the breach could be Tom s 
                                        fault. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                          How do you work that out? 
 
                                        MARK 
          He let Danny in through the pods. He could have 
                              been contaminated. 
 
They are all looking at DANNY. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    You what? 
 
                                        COLIN 
        Yeah Tom and Malcolm forced the pod open after the 
          alarm sounded. Cos you were so bloody typically 



 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 56 

        late! We re all going to get it cos big- shot high 
              flyer Danny couldn t get to work on time! 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Calm down little man. 
 
COLIN takes a swing at him. DANNY steps aside and COLIN falls. 
DANNY is about to strike him with the edge of his hand. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Danny! 
 
TOM has DANNY in a lock. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      No. No. 
 
Everyone is still. TOM releases DANNY. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                            Apologise to each other. 
 
COLIN gives DANNY a finger. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                I said apologise. 
 
They look at each other. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yeah 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Ok. 
 
They touch hands. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
        You re killing us all, what happens when someone 
                                else falls sick? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                They join Harry. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                              Yeah but what if... 
 
                                        TOM 
                One by one we ll quarantine each other. 
 



 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 57 

                                      BRIDGET 
          Oh yes? Til  there s one then none of us left? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          What else do you suggest? 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                        That we make a run for it. 
 
                                        MARK 
            Get a vehicle, get out of the London area. 
                                      Regroup. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Like where? 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                          The Ashford Safe House. 
 
                                        MARK 
        We must do this! We can t die in here. Ashford s 
        more than a safe house, it s a command centre in 
                          itself. All the links... 
 
                                        RUTH 
            And Ashford s South, with the Westerly wind 
            Ashford may have escaped the gas footprint... 
 
                                        TOM 
                No. We stay here. As a control centre. 
 
                                        MARK 
        That s madness. We ve got no line to the outside 
                                        world. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Then let s get one. There may be a line passing 
        through the ceiling that s working. Let s find it. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                We ve got half the ceiling off already! 
 
                                  TOM (Shouts) 
        Then let s get it all off! All of us, let s do it. 
                And Malcolm s got an idea, haven t you! 
 
They all stare at MALCOLM. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                Yeah. Colin and I we re... working on a 
                              communications device. 
 



 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 58 

                                        MARK 
                            What kind of  device ? 
 
                                  MALCOLM (Lost) 
                                      It s... 
 
                                        COLIN 
          It s a robot. To contact the satellite network. 
                                  From outside. 
 
Everyone is looking at them. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Great. 
 
BRIDGET and MARK look disgruntled. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0901 
 
DANNY is on a tower of chairs, held by SAM. He is prizing off 
sections of the ceiling. Everyone is chipping with office 
scissors, screwdrivers at the floors but for MALCOLM and 
COLIN, who have taken video recorders and computers to pieces. 
They are assembling a small machine: four wheels from the 
innards of VHS drives, wires, motherboards. It s like a 
chaotic Mars rover. Several disks have the mangled innards of 
computers, VHS machines and mobile phones strewn over them. 
 
              MALCOLM (Calling out to the Grid at large.) 
        Remember: if you hit a wire stop at once and give 
                                    me a shout. 
 
MARK stops digging and comes over to look at the  robot.  
Others join him. 
 
                                        MARK 
                  How s this thing supposed to work? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Well the dish can send and receive a satellite 
                    signal... It s just copper wire. 
 
                                        COLIN 
        We ve cannibalised the WAP chips of three mobile 
        phones. And the wheels are from the drives in the 
                                  VHS machines. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        There s a two-way radio out of the television set. 
          And with a speaker to attract attention as it 
          moves about. It s powered by the batteries from 
                                    our laptop. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 59 

There s a ripple of approval. Smiles. 
 
                                        MARK 
                        When it moves about where? 
 
                                        COLIN 
        Outside. We ll communicate with it by thirteen amp 
                    wire, stripped out of the walls. 
 
                                        MARK 
            Yes? And how are we going to get it outside? 
 
                            COLIN (Looking at Tom) 
                  Well. That s an executive decision. 
 
                              MARK (Turning away) 
                                  What rubbish. 
 
The others turn away. 
 
                                    TOM (Low) 
                      Zoe. You re weapons qualified. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        So? 
 
                                        TOM 
        There are firearms kept at the back of the forgery 
                                        suite. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        These are people we work with. We can t point guns 
                                      at them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        No one must leave the Grid. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Only the security unit can use arms. It s 
            absolutely forbidden to distribute weapons to 
                      other personnel. You know that. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Right now, we are the only ones who can say what 
                          is or is not forbidden. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            So what are we running in this hole? A tight 
                            little fascist state? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I don t care. I m not going to let this group of 
                              people fall apart. 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 60 

 
                                        ZOE 
            You mean you ll shoot them before they do? 
 
                                        TOM 
        You have had advanced weapons training, that gives 
          you some seniority. Just give me authority to 
                            break out the weapons. 
 
ZOE looks across at everyone on the Grid hacking at walls, 
DANNY at the ceiling. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    All right. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Good. 
 
TOM is pulling something from his pocket. LOOK CLOSE: In the 
palm of his hand lies a key ring with odd looking metal 
implements on it. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 2. 0917 
 
TOM and ZOE. TOM is trying to pick the lock of a small cabinet 
high on the wall. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Keep the door closed. 
 
TOM gets the cabinet open. 
 
Four automatic pistols are on a rack. TOM takes two. There are 
also four sets of handcuffs. TOM looks at them for a moment, 
then takes them. He puts them in his pockets. He takes two 
clips of ammunition and puts them into the pistols. 
 
He closes the cabinet. He gives a pistol to ZOE. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                      Hide it. 
 
They put the pistols under their clothing. 
 
A beat. They are looking at each other, calm, unsmiling. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0923 
 
TOM and ZOE come out onto the Grid. It is now thoroughly 
wrecked. Lumps of ceiling hang loose. Desks are on top of each 
other. DANNY is still tearing at the ceiling. 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 61 

TOM  tours the campfires.  
 
                                        RUTH 
            It s pointless. I m an analyst. But there s 
          nothing to analyse. Just a load of dead wires to 
                                      look at. 
 
                                        TOM 
        When we get the power back on you ll be the most 
                      important person in the room. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            You know, I never realised. I m just my job. 
              Nothing else. Without it I go completely to 
                                      pieces. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Ruth, you re much more... 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        No, no I m happy with that. 
 
She pulls herself together affecting her old self. She stabs 
the wall. 
 
TOM goes to MALCOLM. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        We can t do much more here, Tom. We ve just about 
              hit every possible power source there is. 
 
And TOM goes to PHIL and MARY. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What s the food situation? 
 
                                        PHIL 
            A packet of cream crackers and half a banana 
                                that s going off. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Water? 
 
                                        MARY 
                              Half a litre left. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Right. 
                                        (low) 
                  Don t let people know it s that low. 
 
                                        PHIL 
                                        No. 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 62 

 
TOM goes to DANNY and SAM, who is looking at HARRY s office 
with fear in her eyes. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Shouldn t we try and see how Harry is? 
 
                                        TOM 
              We can t. We have to keep him isolated. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                  That s cruel. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Tom... 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Look Sam.... 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        No. 
 
She nods at something. TOM turns to see MARK and BRIDGET 
pulling on protection suits. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What are you doing? 
 
                                        MARK 
                  We re going to the Ashford station. 
 
Everyone stops what they are doing. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                                We all should. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                          Those suits are useless. 
 
                                        MARK 
                  They may give us an edge out there. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
        Ashford s got a full communications array. We can 
                get a grip of the situation from there. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
              They have a point. If we could get there. 
 



 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 63 

                                      BRIDGET 
                          We are going to Ashford. 
 
                    MARK and BRIDGET are at the pods. 
 
                        DANNY (Moving towards them) 
                            I don t think you are. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Stay where you are. 
 
                                        MARK 
                                Kent. Clean air. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Maybe not. We don t really know how far the 
                              footprint s spread. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Listen. The traffic out there is backed-up for 
        miles. How will we reach Ashford? On foot? Walking 
            on ground, breathe air that s contaminated? 
 
                                        MARK 
          But the contamination is in here! Your boss is 
                certainly dead by now behind that door. 
 
                            SAM (Low, to herself) 
                  Help us, someone has got to help us. 
 
                                        TOM 
          As long as there are healthy officers here, we 
              stay. Malcolm and Colin are working on a 
                              communications device. 
 
                                        MARK 
        That s Mickey Mouse morale building and you know 
                                        it! 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                        Have we got to die in here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Yes. If that is our fate. 
 
                                        MARK 
                      Fate? You re losing it friend. 
                                      (To Zoe) 
              Zoe, Danny, your boss here is losing it. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                              Let s vote on it. 
 


 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 64 

                                        TOM 
                                      No vote. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                                  Little Hitler. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Look... 
 
TOM and ZOE are looking at each other, thinking: shall we make 
a move? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          I m giving you an order. 
 
                                        MARK 
                        Bridget the control panel. 
 
BRIDGET turns to the pod manual control panel. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Don t touch that. 
 
MARK gives TOM the finger. 
 
GO TO: BRIDGET s hand pulling at the control panel. 
 
GO TO: MARK struggling with the pod. 
 
                                        MARK 
                                    It s going! 
 
                                    TOM (O.S.) 
                  I am ordering you to do your duty. 
 
MARK and BRIDGET turn on him. 
 
TOM, arm straight, is pointing a pistol at them. 
 
Everyone dead still. 
 
                                        MARK 
                                        I... 
 
He moves a fraction. 
 
Then ZOE draws her pistol and, arm straight, points it at 
MARK. 
 
                                  MARK (cont d) 
        What you going to do Tom? Shoot a fellow officer? 
                                In Thames House? 
 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 65 

                                        TOM 
                              If needs be: yes. 
 
                                        MARK 
                              I don t believe you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Zoe cover me. 
 
TOM takes out handcuffs from his pockets and raises his pistol 
again. He holds the handcuffs to DANNY. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        Both of you. Down on the floor. Down on the floor! 
 
GO BACK AND FORTH from the faces of MARK and BRIDGET to DANNY, 
to ZOE and back to the two rebels. 
 
CLOSE UP: TOM s finger on the trigger. He pulls it. The gun 
clicks. 
 
Everyone dead still. 
 
THEN ALL AT ONCE: 
 
The lights go from emergency green to normal. 
 
HARRY comes out of his office. Everyone stares at him. He 
smiles. SAM bursts into tears and turns away. 
 
                                    RUTH (Low) 
                                  You bastard. 
 
Men in suits with clipboards are coming out of the corridor 
doors. 
 
TOM and ZOE still have their pistols raised, everyone else on 
the Grid cannot move. 
 
MALCOLM slumps down against a wall. COLIN, in a fury, turns 
and thumps his fist into a destroyed patch of wall. RUTH 
bursts into tears. 
 
And tears are pouring down ZOE s face as she lowers her 
pistol. 
 
And DANNY and SAM are looking at each other. And DANNY smiles. 
 
And into the stunned silence MARK and BRIDGET begin to 
applaud. 
 
And now COLIN is beginning to laugh and laugh. 
 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 66 

And TOM is still pointing the pistol. 
 
And now STEPHANIE MILLS, the girl from Parliament Square, 
still in the bottom part of her bright yellow protection suit 
and JOHN MACLEISH are coming in through the pods, all 
applauding. 
 
And TOM is pointing the pistol. 
 
And the babble of self congratulation dies down. They are all 
looking at TOM. 
 
HARRY approaches him. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Congratulations Tom, that was a superb display of 
                                      leadership. 
 
A beat. 
 
TOM lowers the gun. He turns to HARRY and smiles. 
 
                                    TOM (beat) 
                    Thanks, Harry. How was your night? 
 
Applause handshakes, the happy babble louder still. 
 
TOM and ZOE look at each other. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Oh, didn t you know there was a back door in my 
                                      office? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Ruth s right, you are a bastard. 
 
And she puts her arms round his neck and hugs him. 
 
Suddenly MALCOLM and COLIN s machine bursts into life and - 
tinnily but clearly - is broadcasting Sue Lawley talking on 
Desert Island Discs:  And your last disc is...  POMPOUS VOICE: 
 It has to be Elgar .... 
 
Everyone applauds, laughs and the tension breaks. A babble of 
 when you...   I didn t know   What was the point of...  
begins, a spontaneous self-debriefing. 
 
                              HARRY (Low to Tom) 
                    Did you think I was convincing? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Oh utterly. 
 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 67 

                                  HARRY (Beams) 
                                      Really? 
 
COLIN approaches STEPHANIE. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                      That was wonderful in the van. 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                                      Thanks. 
 
                                        COLIN 
              Have you have had... nerve gas training? 
 
                                      STEPHANIE 
                                    Of course. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                                        Ah. 
 
ZOE is on her mobile phone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Dad? It s Zoe, you re all right aren t you? 
 
She moves away. 
 
MARK and BRIDGET, all smiles, approach TOM. 
 
                                      BRIDGET 
                            Very well done, Quinn. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Thanks. 
 
                                        MARK 
          So you guessed we d put dummy ammunition in the 
                              fire arms locker. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Not really. 
 
The smile fades from MARK s face. Comes back. Then drops off. 
 
Suddenly everyone s listening. 
 
                                        MARK 
                      You were prepared to shoot me? 
 
                                        TOM 
              Yes. Does that get me good marks or bad? 
 



 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 68 

                                        MARK 
                        We ll... have to assess that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                I bet you will. 
 
HARRY is waving two bottles of champagne. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Plastic cups for the occasion, in my top drawer. 
                                        Sam? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    Oh right. 
 
TOM is turning away, taking out his mobile. Behind him 
champagne is opened. 
 
                              TOM (On his phone) 
                                        Vicky? 
 
EXT. THAMES EMBANKMENT - DAY 2. 0940 
 
VICKY is walking along amongst the London crowds. A normal 
day. 
 
CUT BETWEEN: TOM on the Grid, VICKY on the Embankment. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                And where the hell were you yesterday? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I was held up. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                          Couldn t you have phoned? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Not from where I was. 
 
                                        VICKY 
        I sat in that restaurant and they looked. People 
            looked at me. I had a big sign over my head 
                                     Jilted.    
 
                                        TOM 
                  I had a big sign over my head too. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                              And what was that? 
 
ON THE GRID: 
 


 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 69 

TOM puts his hand over the phone so she cannot hear. 
 
                                        TOM 
          End of the world, end of the world, end of the 
                                        world. 
 
                                VICKY (ON PHONE) 
                          Tom? Tom are you there? 
 
TOM is suddenly gripped by anger. Cold. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What did you have? 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      For lunch what did you have? 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            Er... a salmon mousse. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    A salmon mousse. A salmon mousse. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          What s the matter with you? My life s in ruins 
        because of you. I mean what about me, you selfish 
                                      bastard? 
 
And he goes hot with anger: 
 
                                        TOM 
            Well what about you Vicky? Sitting in a posh 
          French restaurant in the middle of the Western 
        world, thinking  this is the worst thing that can 
        happen to me... . Me, me, me... Why are we all so 
          self-obsessed? Do you know I almost see the point 
          of covering all the salmon mousses with green 
                                        slime. 
 
EMBANKMENT: 
 
                                        VICKY 
                        What are you talking about? 
 
THE GRID: 
 
                                        TOM 
        I can t go on seeing you. It s not working. I want 
                                  to finish it. 
 


 69                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 5 Page 70 

EMBANKMENT: 
 
VICKY stands still, in shock, phone in hand. 
 
                              TOM (V.O.) (cont d) 
                                        Vicky? 
 
VICKY hangs up. 
 
THE GRID: 
TOM looks at what is now a developing party. DANNY puts a 
plastic cup into TOM s hand. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Let s down these and off to a liquid lunch at the 
                                      George? 
 
They are all leaving, happy. 
 
GO TO: RUTH s unheeding monitor. On it a warning is flashing: 
 
MONITOR: GCHQ RED A/A WARNING: LIKELY ATTACK IN 24 HOURS. 
 
END 






























 70