 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                          Episode Three 

 

                                        By 

 

                        Matthew Graham 

                                                     Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 1 

EXT/INT. RANGE ROVERS - DAY 1. 1148 
 
Dunlop tyres crashing through puddles. Two Range Rovers. 
 
Inside - Range Rover 1 is crammed with people in reflective 
jackets and protective suits. The atmosphere is apprehensive. 
Range Rovers swing into a tight bend off the road. 
 
Inside - Range Rover 2 holds DANNY and two cohorts. DANNY 
checks a beeping tracker device. They re close. 
 
Range Rover 1 - SAM fiddles with her face mask, securing it 
over her mouth. Another MI5 OFFICER gently pulls it down. 
 
                                    MI5 OFFICER 
                      Let them see friendly faces. 
 
EXT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1149 
 
Municipal North London building - you ve seen a million like 
it. 
 
SUBTITLE: COMMUNITY CENTRE, STOKE NEWINGTON, NORTH LONDON 
 
On their approach - Range Rovers split. One heading into front 
of building and the other to the rear. 
 
A fund-raiser has taken over a carpark. Stalls and exhibition 
stands. A banner reads;  I.T. Is For EVERYONE.  
 
A gaggle of clearly down-at-heel parents and kids listen to 
the PROJECT MANAGER holding court. 
 
                                  PROJECT MANAGER 
                          (mid speech/background) 
          - if we can get fully funded then we can have 
        portable I.T. centres like the one inside, up and 
        running in your area. So your kids have access to 
                                          - 
 
Range Rover 1 swings into car park. Officers spill out. One of 
the team films with a digi-cam. 
 
                                  PROJECT MANAGER 
                        Wh-What the hell s going on? 
 
                                    MI5 OFFICER 
          Didn t you get a letter from the Borough? Damn! 
            Clearance team. There s blue asbestos in this 
                                      building. 
 
Officers begin easing the stunned crowd back away from the 
building. An excited SAM glances to the community centre. 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 2 

 
By the centre: DANNY leads his two cohorts along the back 
wall, unseen. 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
        R.F. to Control; we re outside now. What s going 
                                on back there? 
 
                              TOM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                Fun and games... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1149 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                ... and the game is Murder In The Dark. 
 
Around TOM, most of the Grid lies in semi-darkness. Officers 
scrabble from desk to desk. Pick out COLIN pulling wires from 
a useless p.c. terminal - trying to locate the problem. 
 
ZOE sits before a monitor - white fuzz. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      We need Pakistan on-line Colin and we need it now. 
 
                                        COLIN 
                  I can t! Satellite feed is scrambled. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
        Control to Reaction Force; everything s corrupted 
              here and we ve got two officers in danger. 
                    Proceed. Full discretion is yours. 
 
INT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1150 
 
A thermal imaging camera peeks around the door. 
 
DANNY reads the screen - patterns of cool blue. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Room s cobalt. No life signs. 
 
They enter fast, guns out - covering every corner. Computers 
laid out along a long trestle. Posters and charts proclaiming 
that  I.T. Is For EVERYONE.  
 
                                        DANNY 
            Several p.c. s. Look like regular ISDN feeds. 
 
Movement in the doorway. They whirl, fingers on triggers. SAM 
- hey, I surrender. 
 



 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 3 

                                        SAM 
        You told me to watch and learn. I can t watch from 
                                    over there. 
 
DANNY s annoyed and flattered at the same time. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1151 
 
ZOE watches the empty monitor desperately. She glances back at 
COLIN who looks up from his work - helpless. TOM presses the 
com-link tight to his ear. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                          Systems still down here. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Tell Danny to hurry! 
 
INT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1152 
 
DANNY and co gliding through the building. SAM notices an 
internet feed running into a cupboard. Opens the cupboard 
door. A computer sits on the shelf, screen a dizzying blur of 
coded data. Top of the screen;  Access Confirmed. Security 
Class D Files Downloading. 23% complete.  
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Found it! 
 
                              DANNY (racing over) 
          Look at it! Yanking files right off our system! 
 
                                        SAM 
                            Break the connection. 
 
DANNY examines the ISDN line running into the skirting. 
 
                                        SAM 
                              Pull the line out! 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
          Control; we ve found the source. We re going to 
                              pull the connection. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID. TOM S STATION - DAY 1. 1152 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                                Check for traps. 
 
INT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1153 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
                            It s gonna take time. 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 4 

 
                                        SAM 
                        Just break the connection - 
 
                              TOM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                  Tread gently - 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
        You ve got officers in danger Control. I m doing 
                                        it. 
 
He yanks the feed. The screen whites out. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1153 
 
Gasps of relief as lights and power return. ZOE watches the 
monitor - a computer map appears headed WESTERN PAKISTAN - 
Grid C339. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        We re up! Wh-Where are they? 
                                  (into radio) 
        Control to Anthony - to Cleopatra - please respond 
                                          - 
 
INT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1154 
 
Graphic: A black spider scuttles across the snow-white screen. 
Stops dead centre. Numbers flash on its back. 
 
8... 7... 6... 
 
                                        SAM 
                            Wh-What have we done? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Countdowns are not good. 
 
4... 3... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Go! RUN!! 
 
1... 
 
A shrill high-pitched electronic shriek cuts through the room. 
DANNY, SAM and the other two officers react in sudden pain as 
their ear-pieces explode with high-band noise. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1154 
 




 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 5 

TOM winces as the pitch belts through his ear-piece and tries 
to scramble his brain tissue. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Shit! 
 
He tosses the ear-piece away. 
 
Meanwhile ZOE frantically scans the computer map. Acres of 
desert terrain. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Please respond - Click the line if you can t talk 
                                          - 
 
TOM regains his wits. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
            C-Control to Reaction Force, come in! Danny? 
                                        Danny! 
 
Angry static is all he can get. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                      Danny! What s happened? Danny! 
 
                  COLIN (looking up from his circuits) 
          We re okay folks. Contact with all officers has 
                                  been resumed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Not all. Tom, our people in Nok Kundi - they ve 
                                vanished. Tom -? 
 
                                  TOM (shaken) 
        We ve just lost Danny. What the hell s going on? 
 
She sees real fear in TOM s eyes. 
 
INT. COMMUNITY CENTRE - DAY 1. 1155 
 
DANNY and SAM - dazed. Look to the dead computer and then to 
each other - what the hell just happened? 
 
TITLE SEQUENCE 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 1302 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY standing. Behind them, a set of monitors 
displaying the MI5 screensaver. RUTH pacing at the end of the 
room. HARRY sits straight-backed in his chair. Keeps a lid on 
his anxiety. RUTH is a cluster-bomb waiting to explode. 
 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 6 

                                        HARRY 
      So let me understand this; at 11.27 today, someone 
            thrust a hand up our skirt. Our Thames House 
            mainframe was hacked into from a remote site. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Correct. Operating systems were contaminated in 
                                      seconds. 
 
The monitors wash to white. Black cyber-spiders scuttle across 
screen dragging letters. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Archive files were swiped at the rate of a dozen a 
          second. We traced them to a community centre in 
                                Stoke Newington. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        We attempted to break the connection. Triggered a 
        high frequency pulse that scrambled the offending 
              PC and left my fillings aching like hell. 
 
On the monitors the spiders have created a poem. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Meanwhile, we re sent this. 
 
                          ZOE (reads from screen) 
         Zeus spoke and nodded with his darkish brows and 
            immortal locks fell forward from the lord s 
              deathless head, and he made great Olympus 
                                      tremble.  
 
                                        RUTH 
          The Iliad. Homer. 8th century BC. The quote s a 
          threat. Olympus was the seat of power in ancient 
          Greece. Here, it trembles. So; whoever they are, 
                        they want to bring us down. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        A little inflammatory Ruth. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Inflammatory?! You said it yourself; we ve just 
                                    been raped! 
 
                                        TOM 
              No, Harry said we were groped. We weren t 
          penetrated. MI5 has a website just like Marks and 
            Spencer or the Natural History Museum. These 
          hackers broke in via that website. But they got 
                      nowhere near the Inner Sanctum. 
                              (to placate Ruth) 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 7 

It s like demonstrators breaking into Parliament and letting 
off fireworks. Alarming but hardly a threat to the 
constitution. 
 
RUTH gives an incredulous snort. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I - umm - think you should work on that Homeric 
          quote Ruth. See what connections you can make. 
                                        Yes? 
 
RUTH inwardly settles herself. Strides out. 
 
                        HARRY (for Ruth s benefit) 
        You three stay. I want to know what went wrong out 
                                  there today. 
 
He closes the door after RUTH. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 1304 
 
RUTH glances back. Through the sound-proof glass; HARRY waving 
his arms with angry expansiveness. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 1305 
 
HARRY - calm despite the arm-waving. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I m giving you a sound grilling. Keep looking 
                  crest-fallen. Tell me when she s gone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    She s gone. 
 
HARRY lowers his arms with a world-weary sigh. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            That woman works for GCHQ. As far as she is 
            concerned this isn t a crisis, just a glitch. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          And is it just a glitch? 
 
                                        HARRY 
           Course not! It s a bloody crisis! See it as a 
          first-strike at our operating systems. Someone s 
                                  going to war. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Do you think she ll go squealing to the top? 
 



 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 8 

                                        HARRY 
        She has every right. But I want to handle this at 
            shop-floor level. Otherwise the brass will be 
          crawling all over us. I ll keep Ruth busy here. 
                  But if these hackers get in again   
 
He breaks off, seeing their faces. And he reads them like a 
shelf of books - they re hiding something. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Right. Tell me. 
 
                            TOM (using computer) 
        We had a satellite trace running on two officers 
            in the field. Operating tags - Anthony and 
                                      Cleopatra. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          The arms-trafficking gig. 
 
Screen: aerial graphic imaging of desert terrain. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Desert site just outside Nok Kundi, Western 
              Pakistan. They were infiltrating an illegal 
            weapons fair. The fair s own security forces 
        suddenly went ape-shit. We don t know why. Anyway, 
          Kalashnikovs started speaking and it all turned 
          into a whole bunch of no-fun. Our people were 
        relying on us to guide them to a safe location in 
                                    the town. 
 
He re-plays CLEOPATRA s last message - an urgent whisper over 
the nearby gun-fire. 
 
                      CLEOPATRA (COM-LINK RECORDING) 
            Control this is Cleopatra. Exchange of fire. 
            Security teams against forces unknown. We re 
          caught in the middle. Please advise. We have to 
                                  get out of - 
 
Loud gun-fire. Angry static. Dead air. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          When the hackers got in the satellite link went 
                                        down. 
By the time we got back on-line we d lost them. 
 
A weighty silence as everyone muses on the possibilities. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        She s - You know she s getting married next month. 
                              Harry - if Rebec - 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 9 

 
                            HARRY (cuts her down) 
          In case you hadn t noticed, we re on a security 
                clamp-down. Operating tags only please. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Sorry. Anthony and Cleopatra have been out there a 
                long time. They re - depending on us. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Any suggestions? 
 
                                        TOM 
          They ve either gone to ground or they re in the 
                                      ground. 
 
HARRY turns slowly - looks through the window. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          If these sods find a way to hack into the Inner 
        Sanctum then every operative will suffer the same 
              fate as Anthony and Cleopatra. MI5 will be 
                    powerless - as will this country. 
 
They hurry out, leaving HARRY to contemplate. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID. TOM S STATION - DAY 1. 1340 
 
DANNY and ZOE over TOM s shoulder as he spins through footage 
taken at the I.T. fair. Angles in on a middle-aged man - 
handing out leaflets to parents. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Digi-cam footage from the IT fair. This is the 
                                only face-match. 
                      (as details scroll on screen) 
        Gordon Blaney, 45. Born in Sunderland. Fully paid 
            up member of the Socialist Party since  76. 
                              (pause for effect) 
                      Was once active for the S.F.M. 
 
DANNY whistles low through his teeth - hot banana. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      S.F.M.? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 1. 1343 
 
TOM, ZOE and DANNY. A wall-screen of archive footage - riots, 
arrests, images of the miner s strike and various agitated 
newspaper headlines. ZOE is having to catch up. 
 



 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 10 

                                        DANNY 
        The Socialist Freedom Movement; support the under-
            class through sabotage, extortion and lately 
        through acts of computer warfare. Membership runs 
        into the hundreds and they are well-funded. They 
                detest New Labour which they see as a 
           presidential government  that must be dismantled. 
        Along with all its bodies. Us included. We ve been 
              expecting something like this from them but 
                            nothing so effective. 
 
                                        TOM 
        They first came to our notice when we infiltrated 
                  the NUM during the Miners  Strike. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    I thought that was Special Branch. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Special Branch? They had a man marching along-side 
          Scargill, we had a man running his bubble-bath. 
        Whilst the miners were fighting for coal not dole, 
            the S.F.M. saw it as stage one of a national 
                                      revolution. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  My parents gave money to the miners. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Good for them. 
 
ZOE - trying to gauge his look. She can t. 
 
                                        TOM 
      By the late  80 s the S.F.M. were all but crushed. 
          Now however, with the ground-swell of animosity 
        towards a New Labour government, it s been easier 
        for the extreme Left to procure funds. We believe 
          the S.F.M. were behind the hacking of sensitive 
              computer files at last year s Labour party 
          conference. Then four months ago the Home Office 
        received an unofficial e-mail. It talked in poetic 
        terms about a major new high-tech offensive. And 
        about, quote;  blinding the lid-less eye of State 
                                      tyranny.  
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Us. They want revenge. 
 
TOM nods discreetly to DANNY. DANNY s cue - 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I ve been building bridges with the organ of the 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 11 

            S.F.M. - the newspaper Red Cry. Posing as a 
                                freelance journo. 
 
TOM (points to the screen) 
Red Cry. We ve learnt that sales profits go into S.F.M. 
coffers. S.F.M. operatives can contact each other through the 
paper. Etcetera. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I m angling for the Red Cry editor to get me in 
                        touch with S.F.M. soldiers - 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Woa .. hold it. You ve been engaged in this 
                    operation for seven months? When? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        When I played squash on Wednesdays. When I went to 
                            that school reunion - 
 
                                        ZOE 
              You came home plastered from that party. 
 
                                  DANNY (arch) 
                                      Did I? 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
                  Need-to-know Zoe. Nothing personal. 
 
TOM hits a button - various pictures of BLANEY talking on 
street corners, buying a newspaper. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          So - so where does Gordon Blaney feature in all 
                                        this? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Blaney teaches history and I.T. at Highdale Second 
          School, Stoke Newington. Glowing record. Helps 
        with the initiative to bring computer technology 
                                to inner cities. 
 
Photo-enlargement - BLANEY amongst rioters. Wielding a 
baseball bat. Face a rictus of hate. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Here he is again. Taken at the Industrial Summit 
        riots in Leeds last summer. He was never arrested. 
                              Unlike this in  84. 
 
Another photo - a bloodied BLANEY, head down, grappling with 
Police. 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 12 

                                        DANNY 
            Nottingham. One of the captains for the S.F.M. 
              Using the miner s struggle to push civil 
        disobedience into other sectors. According to our 
        files, this man is suspected of throwing a nail-
            bomb into a Police car and is one of two men 
              suspected of GBH on a WPC in Bolton in  85. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We put a tap on his phone-line this morning. 
 
He plays a recording. It s grim, distorted, vaguely Davros-
like. 
 
                              BLANEY (OVER PHONE) 
        Yeah, they got burnt today. I saw them. Shit, I m 
                    not talking to you on this line. 
 
EXT. BLANEY S HOUSE - DAY 1. 1438 
 
GORDON BLANEY freewheels into the street. Lean. Chiselled. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        So we have ourselves a vicious anarchist who just 
          happens to be handing out pamphlets yards from a 
                          computer hacking into MI5. 
 
                          BLANEY (V.O./OVER PHONE) 
        They got burnt today. I saw  em - They got burnt 
          today. I saw  em. - They got burnt today. I saw 
                                         em. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        We bug his home. His work. His entire life. If he 
        washes his hands I want to know if he s using hot 
      or cold. But oh so carefully people. He s our best 
                  lead and I don t want him bolting. 
 
A postman almost collides with BLANEY, forcing him to brake. 
He regards the postman with eyes of flint. Pedals on, watched 
by a man with a dog. The man mutters discreetly into his lapel 
mike. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - RUTH S STATION - DAY 1. 1707 
 
Perched behind an unruly stack of paperwork, RUTH hammers at 
the keyboard. Chews a biro like it was a cinnamon stick. HARRY 
watches her. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        The Net offers sixty-eight thousand references to 
                            Zeus or Mount Olympus. 
 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 13 

                                        HARRY 
        Look for a cross-reference. Work round the clock 
                                if you have to. 
 
They watch TOM and ZOE dashing out of the Grid - full of 
purpose. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            So - umm - trawling through this is helpful? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Ruth, what you are personally doing is helping me 
                                      enormously. 
          He walks away - leaving her unsure just what he 
                                        means. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. CORRIDOR - DAY 1. 1708 
 
TOM and ZOE walking. ZOE in reverie. COLIN and his team of 
techies wheel past a trolley of bulky equipment - almost 
colliding with them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Watch it! 
 
                                        COLIN 
            Sorry Tom, house-keeping. Replacing all our 
        routers. These beauties carry a firewall second to 
                                        none. 
 
He scurries on. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Maybe the worst s over. Maybe we ve had our 
                                      fright. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It was horrible - hearing her voice cut off like 
                                        that. 
                                      (pointedly) 
                                Cleopatra I mean. 
 
                                    TOM (glib) 
        They re tough. They re resourceful. And we ll find 
                                        them. 
 
He takes her arm gently, guiding her to one side. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You know - your average terrorist is as skittish 
        as an impala. He may need - coaxing. I d like you 
      to engage our subject Blaney in passive-aggressive 
                            empathetic counter-play. 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 14 

 
                                        ZOE 
                      You want me to flirt with him? 
 
He smiles - awaiting her answer. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 1. 1736 
 
QUICK, SEXY MONTAGE - establishing a new identity. 
 
Fingers on keyboards. ON SCREEN - a credit card application is 
accepted. 
 
ON SCREEN - a driver s license with ZOE s face pixilates. 
A butch male officer picks from a vast array of cosmetic 
products exactly which items should fill a make-up bag. 
 
END MONTAGE - 
 
TOM leads ZOE along the table of paraphernalia - purse, credit 
cards, driver s license, etc. ZOE, weary of this game. TOM, 
like he s fresh out of the Academy. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Jane Graham, 25. Born in Slough. We re still 
          penning your references. You ll be taking class 
                                  straight away. 
 
Drags a stack of books out from under the table. 
 
                                        TOM 
          English curriculum - Years 8 to 10. Everything 
        from Chaucer to Charlie And The Chocolate Factory. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Tom - I m not a teacher. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well you re not a canoeist but you had a canoeing 
                  accident last summer in France and - 
                        (seeing the look on her face) 
                              What s the problem? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Tonight I m seeing - a- a friend - and I have to 
      be Emma the legal secretary. Tomorrow I m Jane the 
                          canoeing English teacher - 
 
                                        TOM 
                  You re Zoe Reynolds, MI5 officer - 
 




 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 15 

                                        ZOE 
            Don t spin me that. You hated lying to Ellie. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We have to know what else Gordon Blaney is 
                                    planning - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Bring him in. 
 
                                        TOM 
                And send the rest of them into hiding? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                It s a honey-trap and it s - it s naff. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Naff can work. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Know what scares me? That one day I ll get a bump 
        on the head and all these people I have to be are 
        all going to get fused together in my psyche. I ll 
                      be one helluva schizophrenic. 
 
He waits - patient. She scans the table. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Jane should have just come out of a relationship. 
            Makes her vulnerable. Might appeal to him. 
 
She collects up her props. TOM watches her. 
 
INT. COOL BAR - NIGHT 1. 2006 
 
Fashionably reminiscent of the lower decks of a Russian 
dreadnaught. TOM plays with his drink. Looks up at VICKY. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                  I pulled a man s eyeball out today. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I work for the Government. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                    Then I pushed it back in again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        MI5. 
                                  (off her look) 
          I m not some tosser trying to impress you, I m 
                                      serious. 
 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 16 

                                        VICKY 
                        You have a very sexy frown. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I can tell you because they ve checked you and 
                                  you re clean. 
 
                                        VICKY 
        They clearly haven t seen me after a 36 hour shift 
                                          - 
 
                                        TOM 
        The truth. My name is Tom Quinn and I m an officer 
                    for Her Majesty s Secret Service. 
 
He waits for her reaction. She sips her drink. 
 
INT. PUB - NIGHT 1. 2008 
 
CARLO carries over wine for himself and ZOE. 
 
                                        CARLO 
            So what did you say to this articles clerk? 
 
                                        ZOE 
      To a pig like that? I hid all his floppy discs. In 
                  plant pots. All over the building. 
 
                                CARLO (chuckles) 
          Great! At the bank, I m the sort to let things 
                    fester. I don t open up very well. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                I hadn t noticed. 
 
                                        CARLO 
        That s because I want to share with you. Is that 
                                      stupid? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        No it s - it s very honest. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                          You re on edge tonight. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  It s not you. 
 
She looks into his kind, expectant face. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          I need to work tonight. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 17 

                                        CARLO 
                                    For real? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Look - how about you cook me dinner this weekend. 
                          Like mama used to make. 
 
He purses his lips - half smiles. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                    You got it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    I m sorry I m such lousy company. 
 
She leans forward to kiss him then stands to go. Hesitates 
then kisses him again with real passion. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                          You can tell me anything. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Thank you.  Night Carlo. 
 
                                        CARLO 
                                  Goodnight Emma. 
 
He doesn t see her wince. 
 
INT. COOL BAR - NIGHT 1. 2011 
 
TOM crosses his legs, waiting for VICKY to say something. 
 
                                        TOM 
              How do you feel about what I ve told you? 
 
Shit, he s actually trying to look cool now. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          I read a book about the Secret Service. You all 
        wear the same colour tie. I suppose you re stuck 
                      behind a desk most of the time. 
 
                                        TOM 
            It s not all paperwork. It can be dangerous. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          So can wrestling a person on mescaline onto the 
            examination trolly. Look, I don t want people 
        dating Vicky the doctor. Do you want people dating 
                        Tom the Secret Service man? 
 



 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 18 

                                        TOM 
            I don t want anyone dating Tom - except you. 
 
She smiles. Leans over and kisses his ear. 
 
                                VICKY (whispers) 
                              I want to taste you. 
 
She goes to the bar. He re-crosses his legs - adjusting 
himself. Excited and a little confused by this woman. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - NIGHT 1. 2028 
 
A room of concrete pillars and large windows. Student-types 
work at computers, formatting the front page of the latest Red 
Cry edition. DANNY is led through by a bulky guy - some kind 
of security measure. JAMES CROWE turns to greet him. CROWE is 
South London, muscular, keeping his 50 years at bay. Watching 
DANNY from over a hard-drive he is dismantling is JOHNNY D - 
young, thin, bookish and cold. 
 
                                        JAMES 
                      All right Ray? How s tricks? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I got something for you. Went down in Stoke 
              Newington yesterday. Word is; it s massive. 
 
The atmosphere in the room has changed. JAMES chews his cheek. 
He flicks a switch and every terminal clicks over to 
screensaver. It s the students  cue to leave. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - NIGHT 1. 2100 
 
Empty save for DANNY, JAMES and JOHNNY D who continues working 
on the drive tower. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        There was some sort of raid involving the security 
        services. MI5 trying to seize a load of computers 
                                - or something. 
 
                                        JAMES 
                              I heard something. 
 
Suddenly JOHNNY D is standing behind DANNY, turning a large 
screwdriver over in his hands. 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
                            Thing is: how did you? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I got a mole in the Home Office says the S.F.M. 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 19 

        are back and declaring war. Should I be making a 
                                      connection? 
 
                                        JAMES 
                              I gotta get on Ray. 
 
DANNY is smart enough to know the meeting is over. He makes to 
go. 
 
                                  JAMES (CONT D) 
        Hey Ray - you coulda gone straight to a broadsheet 
              with something like this. But you didn t. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    You know where my heart lies man. 
 
He nods to DANNY with muted respect. 
 
INT. DANNY AND ZOE S FLAT - NIGHT 1. 2257 
 
ZOE hunched over her curriculum books at the breakfast bar. 
DANNY makes coffee. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            This guy James Crowe - I think he s close to 
                                  letting me in - 
 
                        ZOE (slams her book, terse) 
              I should make it easy on myself. Like you. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    You re going for Sam aren t you? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                 Going  for her? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        She s pretty. And she s convenient because she s 
                                      cleared - 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Hold on, Sam s not - I m not - We haven t - You re 
          in a scratchy mood. I m going to get some shut-
                                        eye. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Oi, you ve got to test me on Charles Dickens. 
 
He turns to her with a sigh. 
 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 20 

                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                                      Please? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Don t take long, I m working the dawn shift. 
 
EXT/INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - PRE-DAWN. DAY 2. 0608 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN MONTAGE: DANNY leading officers (including 
MALCOLM) across the playground. Lock picked in seconds. They 
are in. 
 
Team spread out. Installing bugging devices. 
 
CLASSROOM: DANNY places a listening device behind a map of the 
world. 
 
STAFF ROOM: MALCOLM places a tiny camera above the tea-making 
area. 
 
CORRIDOR: Three miniature directional mikes and a mini-cam 
embedded in the walls. Plastered in and painted. 
 
CORRIDOR: DANNY strides down the central conduit. His team 
filter out of other rooms to fall in step behind him. MALCOLM 
trots towards the main doors. 
 
                              DANNY (can t resist) 
                      No running in the corridors. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAWN. DAY 2. 0644 
 
DANNY - the last into the back of the rusty grey van. Pulls 
away just as the caretaker poodles in on his moped. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0717 
 
An alarm sounds across the floor. HARRY spills out of his 
office and bounds towards the nearest terminal. Panic from 
staff. Spiders  webs are forming on their screens. 
 
COLIN leaps into a chair, fingers flying over the keyboard. 
Webs multiplying on screens. TOM takes the console next to 
COLIN s. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              What are they doing? 
 
                                        TOM 
              They re scanning lines of data. Looking for 
                                      weaknesses. 
 



 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 21 

                                        COLIN 
                              Firewall is holding - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Running a trace. 
                                (into com-link) 
        Apple this is Control. Any movement at Blaney s? 
 
                            OFFICER (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                Negative Control. 
 
Bang! The webs are gone. A beat - then operating systems 
bounce back on screen. 
 
                            TOM (thumps the desk) 
          DAMMIT!! They re toying with us and they want us 
                                    to know it! 
 
                                        HARRY 
            We have to limit their routes of entry. I m 
          shutting down all non-essential systems. Zoe had 
        better get us something on Blaney and she d better 
                                  get it quick. 
 
The room turns to him. MI5 on the defensive - on home turf! 
And they see it in HARRY s eyes - cold, cloying fear. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 2. 0822 
 
Kids streaming in. Chasing, laughing, swapping make-up tips 
and love-bites. ZOE with her books clutched to her chest as 
she joins them - back to school. She notices a gauche 13yr old 
kid (PETER ELLIS) jostled by a couple of boys. 
 
Across the road - BT engineers work around their striped tent. 
TOM parks his car. 
 
                                      ENGINEER 
        All right guv nor? Crackin  old mornin ain t it - 
 
                            TOM (peeved/officious) 
                      Is your supervisor in there? 
 
TOM pushes into the tent - 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 2. 0823 
 
MALCOLM sits at a cosy bank of monitors recording from the 
Highdale bugs. From here almost the entire school can be 
observed. 
 
                              ENGINEER (quite posh) 
                          Jolly stuffy in here sir. 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 22 

 
                                        TOM 
                      Accent s a bit Bow Bells Anton. 
 
                                      ENGINEER 
                            Righty-ho. Point taken. 
 
TOM settles himself next to MALCOLM. Together they watch ZOE 
enter the school surrounded by kids, on the monitor. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. STAFF ROOM - DAY 2. 0828 
 
Smoky. Chairs and sofas spewing stuffing. Teachers huddled in 
corners. Some dozing. ZOE (fish out of water) picks out a 
chipped mug for her coffee. BLANEY enters. She remains casual 
but clocks his position. 
 
                                  SCHOOL TEACHER 
                    Umm - Mr Harrow s mug I m afraid. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Sorry. Which one do I use? 
 
                                  SCHOOL TEACHER 
                              You bring your own. 
 
ZOE realizes all the mugs have names taped to the underside. 
BLANEY notices the moment. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 2. 0829 
 
Monitor - TOM has an over-head view of the staff room. Watches 
BLANEY crossing to ZOE. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      We re on. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. STAFF ROOM - DAY 2. 0830 
 
ZOE aware of BLANEY next to her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Morning. Bring your own mug. They don t tell you 
                          that at training college. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
            That s teachers for you; left wing for life, 
                fascist in the staff room. Supply yes? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Qualified six months ago. Jane Graham. I teach 
                                      English. 
 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 23 

                                        BLANEY 
                        Gordon Blaney. I m history. 
 
The lesson bell sounds. 
 
                                BLANEY (CONT D) 
                                    Good luck. 
 
ZOE takes a deep breath. Here we go. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CLASSROOM - DAY 2. 0845 
 
ZOE - terrified. Cool and cocky, her class face her. One girl 
(CLOE) wears a Discman. PETER ELLIS sits at the back. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        So - So - wh-what do we think of the protagonist 
            in Great Expectations? That s a good word; 
             protagonist . Who knows what it means? Anyone? 
                You? Yes, you - headphones off please. 
 
CLOE slides off her  phones grudgingly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          The protagonist is the person that the story is 
          principally about. Who would that be? Is it the 
                                    boy, Pip? 
 
No hands. Just cool faces. ZOE dry-swallows. CLOE slides her 
 phones back on. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 2. 0910 
 
MALCOLM observes BLANEY teaching his class. TOM shakes his 
head, watching ZOE sweat on another screen. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Give me an Afghan drugs deal any day. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                            I think she s splendid. 
 
TOM casts him a look. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 2. 1538 
 
End bell. ZOE watches the kids screaming home. BLANEY walks 
towards her. She doesn t see him. His face is rigid - set. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                  They want to - 
 
                                    ZOE (jumps) 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 24 

                                      Oh! God! 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                              Sorry. I made you - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    It s okay. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        I was just going to say, they want to learn. Most 
                  of them. They just don t know how. 
 
PETER ELLIS stumbles as one of the rough lads shoves him in 
the back in passing. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
      Of course there s some - like that new kid Peter - 
            won t connect with anything. Tough first day? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Daunting. Could do with a drink actually. Look - 
        there s a nice bar on the High Street - I could do 
                          with some inside advice. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          From an old lag you mean? Sorry, I have to stay 
                                        late. 
 
He turns away abruptly - heads back into school leaving ZOE 
disappointed. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 2. 1540 
 
TOM and MALCOLM tail him via a succession of cameras. 
Monitor: BLANEY unlocks a room. Enters. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Gimme a signal Malcolm. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      We can t cover the I.T. room. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We re observing a possible computer hacker and we 
                      can t watch him with computers? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        The room s being refurbished. We couldn t risk the 
                        decorators finding the bug. 
 
TOM bites his lip. 
 
INT. DANNY AND ZOE S FLAT - NIGHT 2. 2041 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 25 

 
ZOE knocks back a hefty vodka, cribbing on  Great 
Expectations . DANNY pours her another. TOM sets up a DAT-
player. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Okay, our man does something in the I.T. room. God 
        knows what. He goes home late. We pick up a good 
          deal from our target mikes outside. He orders a 
          pizza. Plays Dire Straits.  Alchemy . The live 
                                        album. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Was he working on his home p.c.? 
 
                                        TOM 
          We didn t pick up any keyboard sound. At eight 
          twenty-six he receives a phone call. From James 
                                        Crowe. 
 
He plays the DAT. 
 
                              JAMES (OVER PHONE) 
                  - It was some bit of work Gordon - 
 
                              BLANEY (OVER PHONE) 
                      I don t want to talk about it - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  He hangs up. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        So Blaney carries out the hack on Crowe s orders? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Probably. But we still need to tread gently. Zoe? 
                                        Zoe! 
 
                        ZOE (looks up from Dickens) 
                      I m listening.  Tread gently.  
 
                                        TOM 
        But move to next phase. Let s probe further into 
                                  his work life. 
 
She drops her nose back into her book. TOM closes it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Forget the kids for five minutes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Look, I had great teachers. All right? Miss Forbes 
      in particular - It was because of Miss Forbes that 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 26 

            I got into Oxford. Because she pushed, she 
                      inspired. That s why I m here. 
 
                                        TOM 
          You re not a teacher, you re an officer in the 
                                        field. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          To those kids I m a teacher. I ll do my job but 
                  don t tell me to just forget them. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Look, if S.F.M. succeed in destroying our national 
        security network then we ll be as useless to this 
        country as we were to Anthony and Cleopatra. That 
        means those kids  lives are in danger. Everyone s 
                              life is in danger. 
 
She hammers back the vodka - knows he is right. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    So wear a tight sweater tomorrow. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        What? 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ve been watching him all day, he fancies you. We 
                    need to build on that connection. 
 
                                    ZOE (arch) 
                    Any particular sweater in mind? 
 
                                    TOM & DANNY 
                                  The blue one. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Fine. 
 
She stomps out. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE - HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 2. 2046 
 
SAM charges in, handing her notes to HARRY. 
 
                                        SAM 
      It was Morse code tapped out on a cell-phone. From 
          Cleopatra. But it s all jargon. I don t get it. 
                              What does it mean? 
 
HARRY scans the message. Downs his scotch - rubs his eyes. 
 



 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 27 

                                        HARRY 
      It means Anthony is dead. Probably executed. She s 
                      moving East towards the town. 
 
                            SAM (going carefully) 
                      I heard she s getting married. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Hmm. 
 
                                        SAM 
            She s - going to get out of this, isn t she? 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Go home Sam. I want you in early tomorrow. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2100 
 
Lights going out. SAM tries to leave via the pod - it refuses 
to open. 
 
                    HARRY (weary - post the bad news) 
        We ve shut the Pods down. Give it a push. Oh and 
        put a memo out first thing; no matter how much you 
        waggle the old John Thomas, the motion-sensitive 
        urinals will not flush until this crisis is over. 
 
                                    SAM (dry) 
                                  Thank you sir. 
                              (under her breath) 
                    I look forward to the challenge. 
 
HARRY notices RUTH - alone in a pool of light. Chewing biros. 
Trawling through Iliad references. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          There s no history of anyone using ancient Greek 
              text in this way. So I m trying to think 
                laterally. We once had a codename Zeus. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Oh yes, Algerian dissidents trying to buy a dirty 
                        atomic weapon. Giddy days. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Harry - I feel like everyone is doing something 
                whilst I m painting the Forth Bridge. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Rubbish! Not one of them has your stamina in such 
                                      matters. 
 
HARRY pats her on the shoulder and leaves. 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 28 

 
EXT. VICKY S FLAT - DAY 3. 0735 
 
TOM steps out of the mansion flats  main door. The flat door-
buzzer bleeps for attention. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
          Naked Girl to Sexy Beast. Do you read me, over? 
 
He smirks. Doesn t respond. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
        Suggest immediate recall for intercourse. Repeat, 
                        urgent intercourse required. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
          Uhh - I take it you re unfamiliar with the word 
                                       covert . 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
                              Don t go to work. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
            I have to save the world. What sort of person 
          would I be if I just didn t show? Besides, I d 
                        jeopardise my pension plan. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
                    I could write you a doctor s note. 
 
                            TOM (into door buzzer) 
                    I m terminating this connection. 
 
                          VICKY (OVER DOOR BUZZER) 
          The mood is fading. And it will be your solemn 
                      obligation to regain it later. 
 
Grinning from ear to ear, TOM sets off. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CLASSROOM - DAY 3 0926 
 
Once again ZOE faces her class of dull-eyed pupils. She is 
wearing her tight blue sweater as ordered. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Pip s childhood act has a massive effect on his 
          adult life. Who can tell me what he does? Cloe? 
 
CLOE smiles and shrugs. 
One of the rough lads throws a ruler at PETER ELLIS. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Who threw that? 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 29 

 
The LAD sniggers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            It was you, wasn t it? 
 
                                      ROUGH LAD 
                                  Whatever miss. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I won t tolerate that sort of thing in my class. 
                                      Outside. 
 
                                      ROUGH LAD 
                                    You joking? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Now. 
 
The LAD rises. He s big. Almost her height. 
 
ROUGH LAD 
Like your top miss. Your boyfriend like it? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Out. 
 
                                      ROUGH LAD 
                      Have you got a boyfriend miss? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    I mean it. 
 
                                      ROUGH LAD 
                          Can I be your boyfriend? 
 
ZOE smiles. Grips him lightly at the back of the neck and digs 
her fingertips into the pressure points behind his ears. The 
boy goes rigid. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        That s the way - out we go - 
 
She frog-marches the stricken lad from the room. Slams the 
door on him. Composes herself. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. STAFF ROOM - DAY 3. 1233 
 
BLANEY watches ZOE making tea angrily. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                  You okay Jane? 
 


 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 30 

                                        ZOE 
          I forced a boy out of my class. He s insolent. 
          Sneering. Upsetting the rest. But - I should ve 
          been able to win him round. Or at least contain 
                                        him - 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        That fairytale moment when the bad apple is turned 
              by the power of our teaching. It s crap. 
 
She is alerted by the sudden steel in his voice. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      I failed. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          The bad kids control what the rest of the class 
        think and feel. They choose how much of the lesson 
              gets through. In a sense they control the 
                                    information. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 3. 1233 
 
TOM leans forward - he likes this. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. STAFF ROOM - DAY 3. 1234 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Brute force is an unwelcome ally. You inflicted 
        pain on the controlling factor - for the benefit 
      of the majority. You don t have to feel good about 
          it, but don t kid yourself it wasn t necessary. 
 
He realizes he may have revealed too much of himself. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 3. 1612 
 
Last kids leaving after another day. TOM walks into the 
playground dressed in overalls. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. I.T. ROOM - DAY 3. 1614 
 
The caretaker lets in TOM dressed in paint-splattered 
overalls. TOM carries a tool bag. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Just gonna fit in some beading mate. Be ten 
                                      minutes. 
 
The caretaker ambles out. 
 
TOM slips on a face mask. Produces a spray gun connected to a 
steel cylinder. Sprays the entire room - computers, desks, 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 31 

floor - with a fine spray that sparkles in the air before 
settling invisibly. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 3. 1628 
 
ZOE and TOM pass each other. 
 
                            TOM (playing the oik) 
                                    Aye. Aye. 
 
ZOE ignores him pointedly. TOM shares a smirk with a couple of 
the pupils as he leaves. 
 
ZOE at the classroom door - locked. She deftly and discreetly 
picks the lock. In. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. BLANEY S CLASSROOM - DAY 3. 1628 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: ZOE enters the classroom and approaches BLANEY s 
desk. She snaps on white forensic gloves. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. DAY 3. 1629 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM heads towards the gates. 
 
                            MALCOLM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                    Tom - Blaney s heading for I.T. 
 
TOM nods once in confirmation. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. BLANEY S CLASSROOM - DAY 3. 1631 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: ZOE tries the desk drawer - locked. She picks it 
in three seconds flat. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. OUTSIDE I.T. ROOM - DAY 3. 1632 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: BLANEY reaches the door to the I.T. room. Feels 
for his keys. Damn. Trots back. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 3. 1633 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM re-joins MALCOLM. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
            We ve got a tiny problem. He s heading back. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Bugger. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. BLANEY S CLASSROOM - DAY 3. 1634 
 



 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 32 

SPLIT SCREEN: ZOE examines a register, a few notes, a few 
other innocuous files from the desk drawer. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 3. 1634 
 
SPLIT SCREEN: Following BLANEY. Getting closer. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. BLANEY S CLASSROOM - DAY 3. 1634 
 
SPLIT SCREEN: ZOE feels along the back of the drawer but can 
find nothing. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 3. 1635 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: BLANEY sees the classroom door ajar. His 
suspicions are raised. He slows his pace. Kids crash by. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                Walk don t run! 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. BLANEY S CLASSROOM - DAY 3. 1635 
 
ZOE hears him. She quickly re-orders the paperwork and shoves 
it back in the drawer. She slides the drawer closed and works 
efficiently to re-lock it. 
 
She has no time to get out. She hurries to the window. 
Suddenly realizes she is wearing her forensic gloves. Last 
minute scrabble to rip them off two seconds before BLANEY 
enters. He discovers her rapping on the glass. 
 
                          ZOE (to  kids  outside) 
                      Go on. Home with you. Go on. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                              Everything all right? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I found two lads helping themselves to pens off 
          your desk. You should think about locking this 
                                        room. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
            I do. I thought I had. I - must ve forgotten. 
 
He picks up his I.T. keys. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I m glad I ve run into you. I m bored of eating 
          supper on my own. You re the closest thing I ve 
        got to a mate in here. Take pity on the new girl. 
 



 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 33 

                                        BLANEY 
                I will. But not tonight if that s okay. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Well - you let me know. 
 
He smiles. Watches her leave. As soon as she is gone his smile 
drops. He scans the room deliberately. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DUSK 3. 1830 
 
BLANEY cycles out of the school and past the Telecom tent. 
Vanishes into the night. TOM steps out of the tent. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. I.T. ROOM - NIGHT 3. 1834 
 
TOM holds a bulky hand-held lamp. He switches off the strip-
lights. Switches on his UV lamp and the room is thrown into 
startling fluorescent green. Everything has been coated in UV 
reactive dust. TOM picks out fingerprints in the dust - on the 
sides of the computers and markings on the desk surface. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - NIGHT 3. 1838 
 
DANNY arrives to find the place deserted. The terminals glow 
like ghosts. CROWE is deathly pale as he steps into their 
light - a zombie. 
 
                                        JAMES 
          There s a lot of discontent out there Ray. And 
          it s lasted a damn site longer than one winter. 
            The old union men are back in the fray. The 
             awkward squad  who refuse to pay homage to 
        Millbank. These people could come on-side with us 
          if they thought we could turn the tables on an 
            autocratic Judas government. Our struggle has 
        never been more important. Our soldiers never more 
                                      ambitious. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Soldiers? You mean the S.F.M. No wonder MI5 are 
                                  getting jumpy. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. I.T. ROOM - NIGHT 3. 1839 
 
TOM studies prints and marks in the dust. He opens up a hard 
drive tower. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
        This hard-drive s just a shell. He s going to rig 
                              it for something. 
 
INT. COFFEE SHOP - NIGHT 3. 1850 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 34 

 
ZOE sipping cappuccino and swotting on curriculum. Looks up 
with a start to find BLANEY standing by her table. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
            I m not a cynic, okay? All that stuff about 
        necessary force. We live in an embattled society. 
                    Sometimes force is the only way. 
                                        (sits) 
          And I don t always sound like a pamphlet. It s 
        just - I was involved in a lot of political stuff 
                              when I was younger. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Rallies? That sort of thing? 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        My grandfather marched from Jarrow to London with 
        heart disease to send a message to the Government. 
        Blood clots turned his ankles into footballs. He 
            died two days later. What good are rallies? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  So - what s the alternative Gordon? 
 
BLANEY lifts his cool eyes to her. The silence hangs in the 
air. ZOE waits with bated breath. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Don t give up on them will you. It s only your 
                                    first week. 
                                (genuine smile) 
                        I ll leave you to your work. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - NIGHT 3. 1851 
 
DANNY turns to the door. 
 
                                        JAMES 
                  There s a man I d like you to meet. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    What man? 
 
                                        JAMES 
                                  Gordon Blaney. 
                                    (A beat.) 
          S.F.M. is back in business Ray. And those that 
                        tried to crush us will burn. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 3. 2110 
 



 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 35 

TOM, ZOE and DANNY waiting for HARRY. He breezes in, rubbing 
his hands together. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Sorry it s so chilly, the heating s computer 
                  controlled so I ve had it shut down. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We think Blaney s priming some school computers 
                      for another hacking operation. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Tomorrow he ll be with his S.F.M. colleagues. 
          They re tub-thumping and they want a journalist 
                                    there. Me. 
 
                                        TOM 
        If Danny thinks this is a lone cell, he can give 
                the signal and we swoop. Take them out. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            It doesn t make sense. 
 
They all turn to her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        He s cynical - angry - but he cares. I ve seen it 
      in him. He told me not to give up on the children. 
            This from a man who wants national anarchy? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                He strikes me as a tired old Marxist. 
 
DANNY holds up the picture of BLANEY rioting. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Don t forget the nail-bombs. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Look, I ve seen enough terrorists. There s always 
            a piece missing in them. A piece of humanity. 
                          There isn t in this man. 
 
HARRY drops into a chair beside ZOE, with a chummy sigh of 
empathy. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        It s quite beguiling isn t it; the simplicity of 
          the outside world. Dinner bells, detentions and 
                      names on chipped coffee mugs. 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 36 

 
                                        ZOE 
                                      I just - 
 
                                        HARRY 
              I know. You enjoy being part of something - 
                                      ordinary. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I ve never lost sight of my objective Harry. My 
        instinct tells me that Blaney s not as involved as 
              we think. And my instinct s all I have. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          No, you have your instinct backed up by twelve 
                billion pound s worth of intelligence. 
                  Intelligence which must be protected. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 4. 0816 
 
BLANEY in the empty corridor, his attention taken out of the 
window - where ZOE is walking across the quad with kids 
arriving. 
 
                              BLANEY (into phone) 
        I m not kidding you James - I m bloody serious. I 
          don t know if it s Special Branch whoever - but 
                              I m being watched. 
 
He snaps his phone shut. Watches ZOE - impassive. Granite-
eyed. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CLASSROOM - DAY 4. 1010 
 
ZOE - determined. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Right, William Wordsworth - 
                            (writes on the board) 
          One of the Romantic Poets. Can anybody tell me 
        what the Romantic Poets were all about? Anybody? 
 
Class shift restlessly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Poetry s pretty boring huh? Cloe - you don t like 
                                      poetry? 
 
                                        CLOE 
                                    Not really. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Not even romantic poetry? 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 37 

 
                                        CLOE 
                          Don t care miss. Sorry. 
 
ZOE crosses the room and jettisons CLOE s CD. The girl is 
startled. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Dido. Got the case? 
 
CLOE passes her the CD box. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Okay then - 
 
Using the album notes as reference, she writes on the board. 
The class - fascinated for the first time. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 4. 1011 
 
TOM and MALCOLM watching various school images. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Blaney s on the move. 
 
They watch him heading out of one of the fire-doors. 
 
                                        TOM 
          He s left a class. Where s he going? Malcolm - 
 
BLANEY heads around the exterior of the building. MALCOLM 
jumps quickly between cameras. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                  I ve lost him. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CLASSROOM - DAY 4. 1012 
 
ZOE writing lyrics on the board. Class paying attention. 
 
                                        ZOE 
         So you re with her, and not with me, I hope she s 
                sweet, and so pretty. I hear she cooks 
                                    delightfully  
                                    (to class) 
                Dido has written a romantic poem. She s 
          complimenting an ex-boyfriend on his new lover. Or 
                                  is she? Cloe? 
 
                                        CLOE 
                            Uhh - no, she s not. 
 



 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 38 

                                        ZOE 
        But she says this girl s wonderful - a great cook 
                                          - 
 
                                        CLOE 
                          She doesn t mean it miss. 
 
                                        ZOE 
         When you see her sweet smile baby, don t think of 
          me.  Follow the logic of this poem. What s the 
                          theme running through it? 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 4. 1015 
 
TOM switches anxiously from camera to camera - no BLANEY. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CLASSROOM - DAY 4. 1015 
 
Hands shoot up. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Yes? Daniella? 
 
                                      DANIELLA 
          Everything Dido s saying is like the opposite of 
                                what she means. 
 
                                        CLOE 
        Yeah when she says  Don t think of me , she really 
            wants him to be thinking about her. She never 
                          wants him to forget her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Exactly! 
 
ZOE spots BLANEY through the window. He s heading furtively 
round the back of the school. ZOE s suspicion tweaks. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Right - uhh - write a - a love poem like Dido s. 
            You have to mean the opposite of what you re 
          saying.  I hate you  when you mean  I love you . 
                          Or the other way round. 
 
                                        CLOE 
                          Where are you going miss? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Get writing. I m going to ask Mr Williams next 
          door to listen out for you. And if you play-up 
                                  I ll know it - 
                          (glances at a hidden bug) 
                                  - believe me. 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 39 

 
Most of the pupils are inspired enough to comply, especially 
the excited CLOE. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 4. 1018 
 
ZOE follows BLANEY s direction. Cuts off down the side of the 
school - clearly an out-of-bounds area. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 4. 1019 
 
TOM watches her, via the monitor. Then she s gone. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I don t like her out of sight. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        D you think he could be leading her? D you think 
                                  it s a set-up? 
 
TOM springs out of the tent. 
 
                                MALCOLM (CONT D) 
                                        Tom? 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 4. 1020 
 
TOM risks exposure. Leaning on the gates he casts his macro-
binoculars across the grounds. Suddenly picks out ZOE 
approaching the maintenance shed. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. SHED - DAY 4. 1023 
 
The shed door is open. Inside it is dark. A water-tank gurgles 
like a living thing. ZOE peers into the gloom. There is 
movement in there. She has no idea that BLANEY has appeared 
behind her. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 4. 1023 
 
TOM watches it all through his binocs. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                          Blaney s right behind her 
 
                            MALCOLM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                    Forget her cover, Tom. Warn her. 
 
TOM waits. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. SHED - DAY 4. 1025 
 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 40 

ZOE only notices BLANEY when he walks past her and stands in 
the shed doorway, holding a can of coke. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                    Come on son. I got you a drink. 
 
                        PETER (sullen, from inside) 
                                      Go away. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Ah come on, you can t stay in there, mate. It s 
                dangerous. You can talk to me you know. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 4. 1025 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM watching her through binocs. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. SHED - DAY 4. 1026 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: PETER can be glimpsed in the shadows - blazer 
torn, a bruise above his eye. ZOE clocks TOM in the distance. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Peter - you don t have to talk about it if you 
                                  don t want to. 
 
                                        PETER 
                        I never even looked at  em. 
 
Still looking across at TOM, ZOE shakes her head once. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 4. 1026 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM reads the signal. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Tom, we re being recalled for the Red Cry op. 
                        What s the deal out there? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          She s okay. Pulling back. 
 
He returns to the tent. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. SHED - DAY 4. 1027 
 
ZOE joins BLANEY. 
 
                                        PETER 
            I keep me head down. Then they don t see you. 
                                      Sometimes. 
 



 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 41 

                                        BLANEY 
                    But this time they went for you. 
 
                                        PETER 
                              It s safe in here. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                      Peter - 
 
                                        PETER 
          My dad knows karate - self-defence - all that. 
          He s gonna come down here and Jason Sweeny and 
          that lot ll wish they were dead! My dad ll sort 
                                        it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Peter, we ve got a problem. If Mr Blaney and I are 
        caught out here when we should be teaching, we ll 
                            be for the high-jump. 
 
PETER and BLANEY both look surprised. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You know, I need this job. I m not going back to 
            the old one. You ever plucked chickens for a 
                        living? There s no up-side. 
 
                            PETER (grinning more) 
                  Yeah - all right - don t go on miss. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        So how about we both bunk off early and I ll run 
                                    you home. 
 
PETER edges out of the shed. BLANEY closes the shed door and 
throws the bolt. He casts a look to ZOE - nice job. 
 
EXT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 4. 1211 
 
BRYONY ELLIS slips the front door open an inch on PETER and 
ZOE. Small, neat, hair tied tight. PETER hugs her. She strokes 
his hair absentmindedly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Mrs Ellis, I m Jane Graham, Peter s English 
        teacher. There was some bother at school. Shall I 
                          come in and we can talk - 
 
                                        BRYONY 
                            It s not a good time. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              What about Peter s father? Is he at home? 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 42 

 
                                        PETER 
                      My dad works long hours miss. 
 
                                        BRYONY 
          I have to get on. Thanks for bringing him home. 
 
She closes the door softly in ZOE s face. With an inward 
shrug, ZOE returns to her car. Her mobile sings for attention. 
 
                                  ZOE (mobile) 
          Hi, Auntie Doris? How are you? I m on my way. 
 
She quickens her pace, jumping into the car. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 4. 1251 
 
TOM and MALCOLM wait inside, watching DANNY arrive at the Red 
Cry offices on a monitor. They are both wearing head-sets to 
listen in on the conversation in the cafe. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                              We re in business. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - DAY 4. 1254 
 
DANNY is met by JAMES and JOHNNY D plus their henchman, Bulky 
Guy. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      So where s this Gordon Blaney? 
 
Bulky Guy frisks him roughly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            I thought we had trust. 
 
The henchman pushes DANNY away and nods to JAMES. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        You want Blaney to be the spokesman for the S.F.M. 
            yeah? I mean that s really what this is about 
                                      isn t it. 
 
                                        JAMES 
                                    Be quiet. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        If you guys are about to declare war then I m the 
          man to get your message into the nationals. I m 
        the safe link you ve been looking for. I m the - 
 



 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 43 

                                      JOHNNY D 
                                  Why the stud? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Eh? 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
          The stud. I haven t seen you wear one before. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 4. 1255 
 
TOM and MALCOLM exchange worried glances. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Someone tell me he s worn a stud before now. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Definitely. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Great. We ve got a paranoid. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - DAY 4. 1255 
 
DANNY fingers the stud in his ear. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        What are you talking about? I ve always worn one. 
 
                                        JAMES 
                              He s clean Johnny - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    You wanna see it? Make you happy? 
 
He pulls the stud out and tosses it over. 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
                              What s this coating? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Wha -? It s a cheap job off the market. 
 
JOHNNY glances through the window. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 4. 1256 
 
                                        TOM 
              What is it? Some kind of bugging device? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
              Actually it s a cheap job off the market. 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 44 

                                        TOM 
        But it s got Johnny s mind racing and that s not 
                                        good. 
                                (into com-link) 
                              Stand-by all units. 
 
They stand, ready to leave... 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - DAY 4. 1257 
 
JOHNNY looks at a CCTV monitor of the road outside. It is 
almost deserted save for three cars and a Bedford van. JOHNNY 
notes their position. 
 
He grips DANNY by the jacket. 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
            Three vehicles evenly positioned. Perfect for 
                          triangulating target mikes! 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Woa! Come again - ? 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
        Control vehicle across the street! This is a damn 
                        set-up! We re not doing this! 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Is he high or something? 
 
                                      JOHNNY D 
                            We re not doing this! 
 
JOHNNY looks to JAMES, beseeching. JAMES nods. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Ah, come on - 
 
                                        JAMES 
          We run a newspaper. I thought you might like to 
          interview an activist from the old days. That s 
        all. I ve changed my mind. There s no job for you 
                        here mate, don t call again. 
 
DANNY tries to laugh it off but can see the whole operation 
collapse around him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Shame. 
                              (beat - then calmly) 
                                      Back-up. 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - DAY 4. 1259 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 45 

 
Officers filter calmly into the office. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Could you please place your hands on your head. 
                                    All of you. 
                                  (to officers) 
                          Impound these computers. 
 
TOM casts DANNY a look - hard luck. DANNY strides over to 
JOHNNY D - frustrated. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            It was just an ear-stud you paranoid twit! 
 
INT. RED CRY OFFICES - DAY 4. 1259 
 
BLANEY walks in to the office, unaware of what is happening 
inside. Sees the activity. Shit. Turns around. ZOE arriving 
behind him, blocks his way. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                        Jane?! 
 
He squints at her with a half-smile. She opens up her shirt 
tails so he can see the pistol in her holster. BLANEY s smile 
collapses. He looks back at the men being bundled away. He 
feels acutely betrayed. The moment pains ZOE. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 4. 1452 
 
Grey walls. Grey door. Grey lighting. ZOE sits opposite a grey 
GORDON BLANEY. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I know I stand for everything you hate - but I 
          want you to help me. Because it s important to 
                          everyone in this country. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
      At the I.T. fair - those  council workers  had MI5 
          written all over them. Crowe phones me from time 
          to time. Always wanting to re-recruit me - all 
              that bollocks. I told him what I d seen. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  You told him you saw us get burnt. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        But I didn t do the burning. I m not involved in 
                              any of that stuff. 
 



 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 46 

                                        ZOE 
                  You suspected we were watching you. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        I have a past. Picket-lines, that sort of thing. I 
          got scared. Thought I might be a Police target. 
                            I m a school teacher - 
 
She holds the rioting photo in his face. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                And what s this, school trip to Leeds? 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          What the hell s -? That s not me. That can t be 
                        me! You re setting me up - 
 
                                        ZOE 
          And the nail bombs? And what about that WPC in 
         85? You hacked into her didn t you. In the very 
                                  real sense - 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          Your bosses feed you crap, you wolf it down and 
        ask for seconds. I charged a few riot shields in 
              my youth and you decide I m a psychopath. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      We know you were tampering with hard-drives at the 
                                      school - 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                          I was installing modems! 
 
                                        ZOE 
        All right - okay - I want to know what you think 
                                      Gordon - 
 
                                        BLANEY 
          I think whoever s playing you people is playing 
          you good.  Coz you re not only barking up the 
          wrong tree, you re in the wrong forest. For the 
                                record - I teach! 
 
She knows she ll get no more. She turns to go. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
        And I wasn t playing at it  Jane.  I was in it for 
        real. What s real for you? Do you people even know 
                                what reality is? 
She hesitates. Then leaves. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE - NIGHT 4. 1832 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 47 

 
PETER sits at the kitchen table eating fish fingers. 
Everything about him has altered - straight-backed, clear-eyed 
and well-spoken. BRYONY collects her jacket. 
 
                                        PETER 
                        I won t need you any more. 
 
                                        BRYONY 
                    Then what about this weeks  - ? 
 
                                        PETER 
                              Under the newspaper. 
 
She lifts the newspaper revealing a heavy wad of cash bound in 
plastic. 
 
                                  PETER (CONT D) 
           night. Oh and don t forget if you say a word to 
        anyone I can make it so you won t even be able to 
                              get a library card. 
 
She shakes her head with a disbelieving smile - as though 
looking at some rare and dangerous creature and marvelling at 
its evolution. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - NIGHT 4. 2000 
 
PETER s room is an Aladdin s cave of blistering computer 
technology. A widescreen computer linked to a hard-drive that 
MI5 would be proud of. PETER s fingers play a symphony on the 
keyboard. On screen - complex logarithms dance to his tune. He 
hits a  wall . Sighs angrily. 
 
The man leaning against the far wall (VICTOR) is dressed in 
utilitarian t-shirt and jeans. Handsome, craggy, kind eyes. 
 
                            VICTOR (kneels by him) 
        You re doing great Noah. By-pass the trunk codes. 
 
PETER (as we shall call him) reads the red warning that pops 
up on screen. 
 
                                        PETER 
                      I can t get past this firewall. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
          There s nothing MI5 can build that my boy can t 
        get over. What can you tell me about this defence 
                          system? Think carefully. 
 




 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 48 

                                        PETER 
        It attacks foreign codes. Like white cells in our 
                                      bodies. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                      Excellent. 
 
                                        PETER 
          So - so if we send in a decoy code then - then 
        maybe their system will attack it so heavily that 
            it ll leave a hole somewhere for us to slip 
                                      through? 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                  That s my boy. 
 
Father and son regard the screen. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 4. 2019 
 
RUTH hammers through reference after reference, ignored by the 
rest of the Grid. Names scroll before her tired eyes - Zeus, 
Kronos, Titans, Olympus - She yawns. 
 
COLIN is hunched over a terminal near to RUTH s station - hums 
of computers all around him. He mutters and curses under his 
breath. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 0704 
 
Dawn sunlight filtering through. PETER yawns. Shattered. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                      I m so sorry about this Noah. 
 
                                        PETER 
        Don t sweat it dad. I could do another forty-eight 
                                        hours. 
 
                                VICTOR (so proud) 
                      Yes - you could couldn t you? 
 
                                        PETER 
                      The decoy program s assembled. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
          We re not going to get long before they smell a 
                                        rat. 
 
                                        PETER 
                                      I know. 
 



 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 49 

He hits a key and an hour glass pops up at the side of the 
screen. PETER takes a deep nervous breath. His dad looks at 
him encouragingly- the ever solid presence. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                Let s get busy. 
 
PETER types in a command. 
 
                                        PETER 
                                    Decoy away. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 0707 
 
Alarms sound on the Grid. COLIN s head pokes up from behind a 
gutted modem. RUTH jumps at the sound. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    What is it? 
 
                                        COLIN 
                            Firewall s under attack. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 0708 
 
On screen, the hour glass icon up-ends. Sand begins dribbling 
through. The ticking clock. 
 
                                        PETER 
          We don t have long til they know it s a trick. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                        Then fly like the wind son. 
 
Computer graphic sands of time still trickling. PETER s 
fingers a blur on the keys. 
 
                                        PETER 
        Looking for weaknesses in their main system. Found 
                                        one! 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                      Isolate. 
 
Data highlighted on screen. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                            Thirty seconds my boy. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 0709 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                Fifteen seconds. 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 50 

 
                                        PETER 
                              Can t get through - 
 
Sand running out. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                  Ten seconds. 
 
                                        PETER 
                                    Too late - 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                        Never. 
 
BIG CLOSE UP: Data wheeling across screen. 
 
                                        PETER 
                                        Wait! 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                        Five - 
 
                                        PETER 
            There s a by-pass in the op system for their 
                            internal phone lines - 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                                  Three - two - 
 
PETER dashes off a command and hits RETURN. Just as the hour 
glass hits red. 
 
INT. THAMES. THE GRID - DAY 5. 0710 
 
RUTH s screen collapses into a mass of scrambled data. 
 
Every terminal the same. A cry of anguish from COLIN. TOM 
glances at DANNY - each clock the other s fear. Lights dim. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      The Angel of Death is over us. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 0710 
 
                                        VICTOR 
        We re in their main-frame but this is as close as 
        we ll ever get to the Inner Sanctum without access 
            to their own computers. Let s start the ball 
                                      rolling. 
 
                                        PETER 
                                  You bet dad. 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 51 

 
                                        VICTOR 
                              Send in the spiders. 
 
PETER thumps return. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 0711 
 
Power down. Lights low. Officers frozen by disbelief. They 
watch a black spider inch its way across the screen, dragging 
a message. The same message that appears on every terminal. 
 
                                        COLIN 
              I don t believe this! Not again. It s not 
                                      possible. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Number 94. House number? What number does Blaney 
                                      live at? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Twenty-six - 
 
                                        TOM 
                Come on folks! Anyone? 94. Number 94. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            The S.F.M. may have numbered their agents. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Get on it. 
 
RUTH swivels in her chair - biting through her biro. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Periodic Table. 
 
HARRY nods slowly. All eyes on RUTH. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Periodic Table? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Someone - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Yep. 
 
He springs the Table up on his computer. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Number 94. 
 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 52 

Down they scroll. Highlight cursor rests on 94 - Plutonium. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 5. 0800 
 
Playground teeming with laughing, jostling kids. ZOE and TOM 
cross the quadrangle. TOM carries a box-like device (a 
scintillation counter). As soon as he switches it on, the 
needle twitches to the top of the scale. The box crackles 
angrily. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Oh shit - shit - 
 
He swings 360, trying to get a source. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    How high? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Sixty - seventy gamms. Radioactive as hell. 
 
They take in the laughing pupils around them - sounds of play 
intermingled with the ugly crackle of the counter. 
 
                                TOM (into radio) 
        Danny, the school s a radioactive hotzone. We need 
          to evac a minimum of two clicks. Pull everyone 
                          out. Everyone. At once! 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 5. 0800 
 
ANTON bursts into the tent, where MALCOLM is still hunched 
over his terminal and monitors. 
 
                                        ANTON 
                          It s Chernobyl out there! 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    I can t leave everything up and - 
 
                                        ANTON 
                          Too late for that, man. 
 
He literally pulls MALCOLM out of his seat. 
 
EXT. TENT - DAY 5. 0801 
 
MALCOLM and ANTON scrabble from the tent and leg it. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 5. 0804 
 
                                TOM (into radio) 



 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 53 

        Prep portable decontamination units for upwards of 
                                  four hundred. 
 
ZOE shoots him a terrified glance. 
 
EXT. TENT - DAY 5. 0807 
 
Public rushing through the street. Panic. Disorder. In the 
melee,  PETER ELLIS  slips unnoticed into the BT tent. 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 5. 0808 
 
PETER is delighted to find MALCOLM has abandoned his computers 
still on. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL - DAY 5. 0911 
 
Deserted playground seen from on-high. Three figures in 
radiation suits advance across the quadrangle. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 0932 
 
Lights and power still dimmed. Everyone clustered. HARRY s 
face set like concrete. DANNY stands with SAM. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                Those children - 
 
He puts his arm around her instinctively. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            What about Tom and Zoe? They had high-level 
                                    exposure - 
HARRY shoots him a look that says it all. His mobile sings. 
 
                              HARRY (into phone) 
                          Yes - ? Say that again - 
 
TOM and ZOE walk into the Grid to a ripple of gasps. 
 
                              HARRY (into phone) 
                          Forget it, they re here. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  We re clean. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Not that that stopped a woman with a moustache 
          from scrubbing my inner thigh for half an hour. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          The others? The children? 
 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 54 

                                        TOM 
          No contamination. We ve cancelled the procedure 
          for the rest. Going to have one helluva time at 
                                  the next PTA. 
 
TEAM LEADER (OVER TANNOY) 
White Light to Control. We ve found it. 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. SHED - DAY 5. 0933 
 
The radiation boys have encircled the maintenance shed. Their 
counters growl off the scale. One of the team emerges with a 
cylindrical device. The device is clearly electronic. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 5. 1006 
 
BLANEY is shaky and wan. TOM drops the cylindrical device into 
his lap. ZOE stands just behind TOM. She hates seeing BLANEY 
like this. 
 
                                        TOM 
                A Geiger scrambler. This beauty confuses 
            scintillation counters. Makes them read like hot 
          potatoes. Where did you get this? Dissident CIA? 
                        Eastern Europe? Toys R Us? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You can t play dumb Gordon, you were in that shed. 
 
                                        BLANEY 
                                    Not alone. 
 
He glances up at her - daring her to believe him. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 5. 1042 
 
School eerily deserted. ZOE picks the locker labelled Peter 
Ellis. Filthy football socks fall out as well as a rotten 
packed lunch and a few greasy text books. 
 
                              TOM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                      Anything? 
 
                              ZOE (into com-link) 
        Disgusting boy s locker. This was crazy after all. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1043 
 
RUTH notices TOM writing down  PETER ELLIS  on a pad. 
 
                                  RUTH (to Sam) 
                              Who s Peter Ellis? 
 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 55 

                                        SAM 
            A boy from the school. Blaney mentioned him. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        A boy? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Important? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          It s a new factor. I can feed it into my cross-
                            reference for the quote. 
 
On a whim, she snatches up the paper and returns to her 
station. She starts cross-referencing files on her desk. 
 
INT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. CORRIDOR - DAY 5. 1045 
 
ZOE s search is done. She goes to close the door. A sticker on 
the inside of the door catches her eye -  I.T. Is For 
EVERYONE.  
 
                              ZOE (into com-link) 
        Tom - look through the footage from the I.T. fair. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1047 
 
RUTH s station. She looks up from her files. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Sam. I need you to do me a favour. Get down to the 
        Registry and pick up a surveillance recording from 
                                        2001. 
 
Across the Grid - a phone on the desk rings. DANNY answers. 
His eyes widen in shock. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        Clearing you now Cleopatra. 
                                    (shouts out) 
        We ve got her on the squawk-box. I m patching her 
                                      through! 
 
SAM pauses at the door - bated breath. DANNY flips a switch - 
a breathy woman s voice over the Grid com. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
          Cleopatra to Control - re-instating contact. Do 
                                you read - me -? 
 
Relieved, SAM hurries on her errand. 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 56 

          Good to hear you Cleopatra. After two days we 
                            thought we d lost you. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
            Sand-storm delayed me. But _ I ve reached the 
          town. Managed to secure this phone from a taxi-
                    driver. Anthony is - he s gone - 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
          We know. We can see you re entering Nok Kundi. 
                            Exact position please? 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
                  Entering the north quadrant on foot. 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
                                      Status? 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
          Status appalling thanks for asking. Very tired. 
          Dehydrated. Think my wrist s broken. Five minutes 
                                from the Kasbar. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Stand-by - 
 
TOM blots all this out - concentrates on the footage from the 
I.T. fair. A face flashes through frame. He freezes the 
picture. Creeps back. PETER ELLIS allowing SAM to ease him 
back across the car park. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1048 
 
PETER returns. VICTOR is waiting for him. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                Did you find their inner sanctum codes? 
 
                                        PETER 
          They made it easy. The terminals were still on. 
 
PETER types in a lengthy code. The screen dissolves into an 
elegantly designed system of files marked  Security A.  
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1050 
 
DANNY feels utterly useless with no power. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
        Control - I m in the kasbar. I m being followed. I 
              need that safe house. Give me coordinates. 
 
DANNY flounders in front of a scrambled map. 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 57 

 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
                                      Stand by. 
 
Words scroll across the screen. No spiders this time. 
 
                                  HARRY (reads) 
           We have access to every part of you. Even the 
        Inner Sanctum. We will now download everything. We 
        will expose every one of your dirty secrets. Your 
        people will be free and Olympus will crumble. Good 
                                      riddance.  
 
SAM rushes back in with an audio tape which RUTH snatches from 
her. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    This is it. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
          Control! I m desperate here! Give me safe house 
                                    coordinates! 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
          Stand by. We re having technical difficulties. 
                                    (off mike) 
                            Harry - what do we do? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Nothing. We re sitting ducks. 
 
TOM drags on a com-link set. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                                        Zoe - 
 
                              ZOE (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                    I m here. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
                    Peter was at the I.T. fair but - 
 
                              ZOE (OVER COM-LINK) 
                      It s okay. I m already there. 
 
TOM - a picture of concern. Snatches his jacket. 
 
EXT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 5. 1055 
 
ZOE pulls up outside. Is this madness? She works the lock. 
Enters. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1056 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 58 

 
Stymied. Helpless. DANNY just stares at a dead screen. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Have we got anything at all? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Couple of minutes and they ll be in the Inner 
            Sanctum. Then they can start wiping us out. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
                                      Control! 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
          Sit tight Cleopatra and observe radio silence. 
                        You re on your own for now. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
          Getting used to that. Radio silence then. Please 
                                  don t be long. 
 
And she is gone once more. An aura of doom has settled. RUTH 
joins HARRY. 
 
                                        RUTH 
           Zeus spoke and nodded with his darkish brows.  
                                        Yes? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          The original translation is  The son of Kronos 
        spoke and nodded with his darkish brow.  Zeus was 
        the son of Kronos. Kronos was a powerful Titan but 
          his son became even more powerful. In a sense, 
                it s a reference to a powerful child. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    And there was I getting worried. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Sometimes you just need one more factor. I thought 
        seeing as you were interested in this boy - Look, 
          Put it all together - Greece, Titans, Kronos, 
          spiders, fathers and sons, the lot. And you get 
                                      something. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Well - what? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        This is an old surveillance recording I had sent 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 59 

          up from the Registry. It s from a farm house in 
        Greece eighteen months ago. A mountain place near 
              the Albanian border called Titan s Reach. 
 
She plays the DAT recorder. Static. Fuzzy child s voice. 
 
                                  CHILD S VOICE 
        - the web - you ve ruined it! You ve ruined it! - 
 
Cut off by gun-fire. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        That was Noah Gleeson. Recorded by an officer with 
              a surveillance mike outside the farmhouse. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Noah Gleeson. Son of Victor Gleeson. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 5. 1058 
 
ZOE picks up a book from the dining table - Iliad with pages 
marked. She glances up the stairs. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1058 
 
ZOE enters cautiously. PETER sits thumbing through  Great 
Expectations  whilst spiders multiply on his screen. 
 
                                        PETER 
          Pip s an idiot. His whole life is controlled by 
                    the will of this rotten convict. 
 
                              ZOE (forced calm) 
                    What are the spiders doing Peter? 
 
                                        PETER 
          They carry binary information. When they re all 
                      assembled they ll wipe you out. 
 
ZOE steps towards the PC. 
 
                                        PETER 
            I wouldn t touch that if I were you. You never 
                          know what might happen. 
 
His gaze is so steady and chill that she halts. 
 
                                        PETER 
        And my name s Noah Gleeson by the way. I ve been 
                              the one in charge. 
 
ZOE looks at the photographs on the wall. Leeds riots. A 
throng of thugs. The series of pictures demonstrate how GORDON 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 60 

BLANEY has been gradually pixilated into the shot - his face 
over the face of bat-weilding rioter. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  You ve been leading us astray. Why? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1100 
 
HARRY stands, hands in pockets and back to the floor. 
 
                                HARRY (decides) 
                  Why not? What else is there to do? 
                              (turns to the floor) 
        Victor Gleeson was our man in Athens. Only family, 
        his son Noah. They had apartments in the embassy 
          compound. You d heard of Noah hadn t you Danny? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Boy was a computer genius. Destined for great 
                                      things. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      He worshipped his father. Victor s cover story was 
        that he was working for the embassy but in fact he 
            was working under-cover with some Albanian 
              terrorists. He slipped up somewhere. They 
              kidnapped him and Noah eighteen months ago. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1101 
 
PETER telling ZOE the same tale. 
 
                                        PETER 
        They kidnapped us. Took us to this farmhouse. MI5 
                              knew we were there! 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Did we rescue you and your dad? 
 
PETER s withering, sickened look says it all. 
 
INT. FARMHOUSE - FLASHBACK. 1200 
 
Rustic Greek room. VICTOR hunched in a corner with his son. 
Shadows playing on the wall above them - men with guns 
shouting in a foreign tongue. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                            They ll rescue us Noah. 
                            (ruffles his son s hair) 
                                Chin up my boy. 
 
Hands grab VICTOR and haul him to his feet. 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 61 

 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1102 
 
                                        PETER 
                      They locked me in a cupboard. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        PETER 
      So they could hurt dad. Find out what he knew. But 
          he s so tough. They couldn t break him. I could 
                              hear them trying. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      It must have been unbearable. 
 
INT. FARMHOUSE. CUPBOARD - FLASHBACK. 1217 
 
        NOAH hugs his knees in the dark space. Outside - 
                      muffled cries from his father. 
 
                                  PETER (V.O.) 
        Dad says that fear is the biggest enemy an officer 
          ever faces. You have to block out the fear and 
                        find something to focus on. 
          NOAH stares at the tiny spider constructing her 
              web in a nook. Vibrating to every punch. 
 
                                  PETER (V.O.) 
          I waited. I shut it all out just like dad taught 
        me. Watch the spider. Watch the spider in her web. 
 
INT. PETER S BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1103 
 
ZOE notices the spider reference books on the bed. The toy 
spider dangling from the lamp. The cyber spiders multiplying 
on screen. An obsession. 
 
                                        PETER 
          Then they worked out that if they tortured me 
                  instead, he d tell them everything. 
 
INT. FARMHOUSE. CUPBOARD - FLASHBACK. 1223 
 
Cupboard door crashes open. Heavy boots crunch through the 
web, destroying it. Hands grab NOAH. 
 
                                      NOAH/PETER 
            The web! You ve ruined it! You ve ruined it! 
 
Gun-fire starts. Echoes over - 
 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 62 

INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1112 
 
DANNY unrolls plastic maps of the Nok Kundi area - tracing 
paths through the labyrinth but unable to find anything to 
help CLEOPATRA. HARRY faces his anxious team. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We wanted to go in but we didn t want the boy to 
                                    get hurt. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1113 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                              PETER (tearful fury) 
            All this was happening and MI5 were outside, 
                  listening to it and doing NOTHING!! 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1113 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                                        HARRY 
        But when we heard him cry out we had to risk going 
                                        in. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1113 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                          PETER (tearful triumph) 
            There was a lot of shooting - but we escaped. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1114 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                                        HARRY 
          There was a lot of shooting. Victor was killed. 
 
EXT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 5. 1114 
 
THIRD SPLIT-SCREEN: TOM outside the house. Watches his team 
emerge from another car. 
 
                              TOM (into com-link) 
        Zoe - the kid s dad was killed and he blames us. 
            He s in a psychotic state. Go slow with him. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1114 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: ZOE nods once. She never takes her eyes off 
PETER. 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 63 

 
                                        PETER 
                              Dad and I got away. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1115 
 
END OF SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We brought the boy home. Kid was traumatized. 
        Social Services looked after him. God only knows 
          what was going on in his head. That incredible 
                          mind corrupted by grief. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1116 
 
PETER smiles. 
 
                                        PETER 
          It took a lot of thinking but then one day Dad 
                  came and told me what I had to do. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        And what did your - your dad tell you? Did he tell 
                                you to get even? 
 
                                        PETER 
          Stop other agents being betrayed by MI5. It was 
                        going to take loads of work. 
                                        (beat) 
          I ran away. Social Services didn t have a clue 
          where to look. Easy. I used cyber cafes. Found 
        everything I needed on the net. Stole cash off the 
                  net. Rented this house on the net. 
 
EXT/INT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 5. 1116 
 
TOM and his team creep into the house. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1116 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            And your -  mother ? 
 
                                        PETER 
        Did you like her? She s an actress who needs money 
          for drugs. She wants to be in  Phantom Of The 
          Opera . I met her in a chat-room site. I did it 
              all. And dad was always around to help me. 
                                        (beat) 
          We ve controlled everything. We ve been hacking 
          into you for months, setting you up big time. 
 


 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 64 

                                        ZOE 
                      You set up Gordon Blaney too. 
 
                                        PETER 
        We found him on an old police list. Teacher who d 
        been in trouble. Perfect. We rigged the computer 
          at the I.T. fair. We knew you d go for him. I d 
          already cheated myself a place in Highdale. Knew 
        you d put an officer in the school. But more than 
                                        that - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                - you knew we d surround the area with 
          surveillance technology. Computers tapping right 
            into the heart of the Grid. You arranged the 
            radiation scare! So - we evacuate our people - 
 
INT. TENT - DAY 5. (FLASHBACK) 0808 
 
PETER in school uniform sliding into the tent. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
              And during those minutes you took all the 
          information you needed to get into our A-systems. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1117 
 
ZOE is in awe. Looks around her at all the high-tech gear. 
 
                                        PETER 
        If you have the money and you know where to look 
              you can get anything. I almost bought an 
                amphibious car but that was just silly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      So you were so smart that you got hold of all this 
            amazing stuff and then - what? You use it to 
                                    attack us? 
 
                                        PETER 
          My dad could ve been killed because of MI5. And 
          just because their stupid plan went wrong they 
          don t want to know him. He s a hero! I m doing 
            this for you too. They don t care about you. 
          You re just a gadget like the Geiger Scrambler. 
 
His finger hovers over the keys. 
 
                                        PETER 
        It ll be over. The agents all over the world can 
                                    come home. 
 
ZOE picks out TOM whispering in her ear. 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 65 

 
                              TOM (OVER COM-LINK) 
                          We re on the stairs Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Noah - if you take those files and expose all our 
          officers then who s to say what happened to your 
                          dad won t happen to them? 
 
                                        PETER 
                    My dad got away! They will too! 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE - DAY 5. 1117 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: As ZOE talks, TOM is easing his team in and 
around the house. He moves stealthily across the landing 
towards the bedroom. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1118 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Oh God Noah you re wrong. We ve got an officer 
        lost in the desert because of this. She s lost and 
          alone and she s totally cut off because of what 
                                  you ve done. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1119 
 
THIRD SPLIT-SCREEN: DANNY waiting for contact with CLEOPATRA. 
Eyes glued to the map. Eerie silence in his headset. 
 
INT. PETER S HOUSE. BEDROOM - DAY 5. 1119 
 
SPLIT-SCREEN: 
 
                                        PETER 
                                Bring her home - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          We can t bring her home. 
 
                                        PETER 
                              I didn t send her! 
 
                                        ZOE 
          No you didn t. She chose to go. Like your dad 
        chose to go to Greece. Like he chose to work for 
                                        MI5 - 
 
A beep from the PC. 
 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 66 

                                        PETER 
                              Spiders are ready... 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Noah - you have done a dreadful and incredible 
            thing. But I know you don t want to see good 
            people die. Please - let us bring her home. 
 
The spiders have amassed. PETER s finger-tip is on the key. 
 
TOM steps softly into the room. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Noah? 
 
                          PETER (turning - eager) 
                                        Dad? 
 
A million cyber-spiders crawl over each other. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Bring her home Noah. 
 
TOM steps up next to PETER. The boy is frozen. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Don t be scared. You ve done all you can. Mission 
                                      aborted. 
 
His finger reaches for ESCAPE. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Tom - 
 
                                        PETER 
                                      I wouldn t. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                No choice mate. 
 
TOM gently taps ESC - the program aborts. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1120 
 
Systems return. Lights flicker up to strength. Relief is 
palpable. DANNY s map returns. 
 
                            DANNY (into com-link) 
          Cleopatra, this is control - I can give you safe-
                            house coordinates now. 
 
                          CLEOPATRA (OVER COM-LINK) 
                          Thank God - Thank God - 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 67 

 
HARRY sags into a chair - exhausted. He catches RUTH s eye. 
Offers her a nod of recognition. 
 
EXT. BLANEY S HOUSE - DAY 6. 0820 
 
GORDON BLANEY throws his rucksack over his shoulder and looks 
back at his house one last time before getting into a taxi. 
 
                                    ZOE (V.O.) 
                              What about Blaney? 
 
EXT. HIGHDALE SCHOOL. GATES - DAY 6. 0821 
 
ZOE stands across the road, watching pupils return. TOM joins 
her. 
 
                                        TOM 
        He s been relocated with our apologies. I think he 
                              gets book tokens. 
                                        (beat) 
            Amazing. We spend billions against the drug 
          cartels, the Iraqis - yet we re almost brought 
            down by one pathologically traumatized child 
                                      genius. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          All the things that Victor knew and that little 
          boy absorbed it. It s a wonder his head didn t 
                                      explode. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      It did. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Blaney asked me what was real for me. The games, 
          the role playing. We don t get any anchorage in 
          our lives. Something goes wrong and where do we 
                      run - except inside ourselves. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I drink slammers and that helps. Time to go. 
 
ZOE catches sight of CLOE. The girl smiles across at her. 
 
                                  ZOE (softly) 
                              Don t think of me. 
 
CLOE s POV: ZOE watching her from across the street. A van 
passes between them and when it is gone - so has ZOE. Vanished 
into thin air. 
 
INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY 6. 1100 


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 3 Page 68 

 
NOAH GLEESON plays chess against an empty chair. He is watched 
from a polite distance by HARRY and the Psychiatric 
supervisor. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          You see you always knew where you were with a 
          public school traitor. Just look for the pipe-
          smoking sixteen year old sodomite with a copy of 
                        E.M. Forster under his arm. 
                                      (sighs) 
        He s Victor Gleeson s son so see that he gets the 
        very best of everything. Cheeky little tyke. Poor, 
                                    poor boy. 
 
NOAH makes his move. 
 
                                      PETER/NOAH 
                              Mate in thirty-two. 
 
VICTOR is sitting opposite the chess-board. Head bowed. 
 
                                      PETER/NOAH 
        You haven t looked at me in days. You don t have 
      to make your mind up now. About whether it s worth 
                                    the risk. 
 
                                        VICTOR 
                              I ve made my mind up 
                                (lifts his head) 
        Just remember the spider my boy. When her web is 
          destroyed, what does she do? She spins a new one. 
          Even more beautiful. Even more complex. And she 
                              catches many flies. 
 
And he smiles at his son. NOAH smiles back. 
 
END OF EPISODE 
















 68