 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                          Episode Nine 

 

                                        By 

 

                          Ben Richards 

                                                     Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 1 

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT 0. 2253 
 
Caption: Customs and Excise Surveillance Operation. Kent 
coastline. 
 
Establishing shot of a surveillance van parked in a lane, 
flanked by hedgerow, just off a country road surrounded by 
fields. 
 
INT. CUSTOMS AND EXCISE VAN - NIGHT 0. 2254 
 
In the front of the van is a driver. Behind a partition are 
three customs and excise officers in plain clothes. One is 
wearing headphones and linked to a radio. One male - mid-
forties. The other - opposite TOM - is a thirty-something 
female JENNY THOMAS. Crackle and hum of com-link traffic - 
this is a big operation. 
 
                              VOICE IN HEADPHONE 
        ETA at Dover is half an hour. All units continue 
          to standby. Status report please Whisky Seven. 
 
                                        JENNY 
                          In position, Alpha One. 
 
She smiles at TOM and gives him a thumbs up. They re excited. 
 
                                  JENNY (CONT D) 
        About time we landed a decent punch on the Chala 
                                      Cartel. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Pretty elusive bunch so far. 
 
                                        JENNY 
              They re changing all the rules. Cut out the 
        Carribean connection which is overheating. Control 
            the whole process from Colombia to Europe. 
        Eliminate anybody who gets in the way. These guys 
            are not your average drug traffickers, Pete. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well this is my first operation so maybe I ll be 
                                the lucky charm. 
 
                                        JENNY 
        Use your lucky charm to get us something nice and 
          easy after this. I missed the final of my son s 
                        football tournament tonight. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Is he any good? 
 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 2 

                                  JENNY (laughs) 
        Joe? He s absolute crap. But he loves it so I tell 
        him he s the next Thierry Henry. You ve got kids 
                                    haven t you? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Two. Zoe and Danny. Zoe s great - too clever for 
                          her own good sometimes. 
                                  (shakes head) 
        Danny s at that difficult age. Always getting into 
                                      trouble. 
 
He glances anxiously at his watch again. 2255. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                  Listen, I really need to take a leak. 
 
                                        JENNY 
        If you want a decent reception you need to go up 
                                the track a bit. 
 
TOM looks at her questioningly. 
 
                        JENNY (CONT D) (explaining) 
        You want to check up on the kids. It s okay, but 
                              don t be too long. 
 
EXT. CUSTOMS AND EXCISE VAN - NIGHT 0. 2256 
 
TOM hops over stile and into field out of sight. Starts 
walking up into the darkness and speaking into mobile. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Status report from Braveheart to control. Still 
          awaiting the Chala Cartel shipment. Will confirm 
        when has arrived. My ETA at the Dover safe house 
        is 0200 hours. Prepare an interrogation room for 
                                        me. 
 
Split Screen: TOM still recording this message while walking 
around in the darkness. 
 
EXT. CUSTOMS AND EXCISE VAN - NIGHT 0. 2256 
 
Split Screen: A group of armed men are moving stealthily 
around the van. Gesture to each other silently, then slide 
door of van open. Three of them leap in while the others stand 
guard. 
 
EXT. FIELD - NIGHT 0. 2259 
 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 3 

Split screen: TOM oblivious to unfolding events looks at 
mobile. 2259. He presses buttons on his mobile and looks out 
into the darkness. 
 
He then looks down at mobile and sees that it is 2300. Clicks 
SEND. 
 
EXT. CUSTOMS AND EXCISE SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT 0. 2301 
 
TOM walking back down path to van. TOM slides open van door... 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Hey, guys, it s freezing out there. 
 
He steps back in shock. We don t see into the van but we know 
from TOM s reaction - he s gasping for breath - that it must 
contain a scene of unspeakable horror. He stumbles round to 
the front of the van. The driver s dead eyes stare blankly 
from the window. He steps back again hyperventilating, fumbles 
for mobile, drops it, stumbles back up the track trying to get 
a signal. 
 
TITLES 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 1. 0745 
 
It s the next morning and TOM is pacing around crackling with 
nervous energy. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Garotted. And their faces, Harry, it was... Three 
                            lives taken just like 
                                (snaps fingers) 
          in a matter of minutes. The Spanish warned us! 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Sit down, Tom. 
 
TOM sits down. 
 
                      HARRY (CONT D) (matter of fact) 
        It was eight lives. They hit another surveillance 
          van as well. And the Customs and Excise Officer 
        who was supposedly undercover was found on a beach 
                                    near Deal. 
                                        (beat) 
                  Compared to him the rest were lucky. 
 
TOM stands up again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Lucky? 
                                        (beat) 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 4 

          I think I m being so clever gatecrashing Customs 
        and Excise operations to try and skim off a Chala 
        Cartel soldier. Then they do this. They re miles 
                              ahead of us already. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Where s their number one? Where s Rafa? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Lying low in his hotel while others do his dirty 
                                        work. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We ve been watching him for a week. What have we 
                                      learnt? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Nothing. Apart from a little Colombian girlfriend 
                      he seems to use for R and R. 
                                      (angrily) 
        It s already 8-0 to Rafa. We need a breakthrough. 
                                        Fast. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          But we mustn t cut corners. Never underestimate 
          Colombians, Tom, or their capacity for violence. 
          Friend in Six who was out in Bogota was telling 
                                        me... 
 
TOM shows a flicker of impatience but luckily the telephone 
rings. HARRY holds up a hand to TOM and answers. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
                        Ah, good morning, Minister. 
 
He raises his eyebrows at TOM who gets up and leaves the 
office. HARRY continues to watch him as he strides across the 
Grid. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0750 
 
                                  ZOE (on phone) 
        I bet you say that to all the girls. OK, I ll be 
                                sure to do that. 
 
She puts phone down. Facing DANNY she can t see TOM 
approaching. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                        That was Julio from CESID. 
                          (Imitates Spanish accent) 
        Hola, Thoe. I would like to take you one night for 
                          dinner in Madrid... Thoe. 


 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 5 

 
DANNY s gestures with his eyes to TOM who is behind ZOE. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Boss, are you okay? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Stop asking me that Danny, I m fine. What are our 
                      colleagues in Spain saying, Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                We told you so. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Get on to Julio again. There must be more than 
          that. Promise him dinner, promise to marry him, 
                            promise him anything. 
 
She glances at him to check he s not serious. She can t tell. 
She smiles. He walks over to RUTH s station. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        So, um, everything alright? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Fine, thank you for asking, Ruth. I need you to do 
                                something for me. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Sure. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The Chala Cartel couldn t have set up that ambush 
        without collusion. I want you to look at everybody 
          who could have provided them with information. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        It will take a little time. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        As fast as possible please. 
 
She nods and he turns away and looks across the Grid. DANNY is 
working on his station, ZOE is on the phone, HARRY is in his 
office. Suddenly as if at a complete loss as to what to do 
next he stops still. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 0800 
 
TOM is sitting on his own staring at the screen. An image of a 
middle-aged Latin American man with the name RAFAEL MORRIENTES 
is staring back at him. The door opens and it s ZOE. 
 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 6 

                          TOM (without looking up) 
                              Don t ask if I m OK. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              I wasn t going to. 
 
TOM still staring at the screen. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You know what s going to happen this morning, Zoe? 
        An eleven year old kid who last night thought he 
          was Thierry Henry will be told that his mum has 
                                  been murdered. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I spoke to Julio again. It s bad, I think we d 
                  better get everyone into hear this. 
 
TOM jolts back into work mode. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Sure. 
 
ZOE heads for the door, about to round everybody up. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You know, when the news first came in, we weren t 
        sure if you were with them in the van. That s why 
                    we we re asking if you re okay. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I know. I understand. 
 
ZOE leaves. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 0805 
 
Everyone assembled. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              The Spanish disco bomb three months ago? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            The ETA blast that killed thirty teenagers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Except it wasn t ETA. The blast came immediately 
        after the deportation of two Chala Cartel members 
                                  to Colombia. 
 



 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 7 

                                        TOM 
        So we give London to the Chala Cartel, or they ll 
                        turn Bournemouth into Bali. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You can see the temptation for them. London s got 
          the fastest growing Colombian community outside 
            Madrid and a hugely lucrative drugs market. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Well we must do something and fast. Just got off 
              the phone to the Home Secretary. They ve 
          authorised additional resources. This has to be 
              our number one priority. He s very jumpy. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          With good reason. If the Chala Cartel had that 
          kind of fire power in Spain, they re certain to 
                                  have it here. 
 
                                        TOM 
          We make this strictly need to know from now on. 
                            Even the Home Office. 
 
HARRY nods. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
        Let s step up surveillance on Rafa. If we re going 
            to stop them, we have to find their armoury. 
 
As the team disperse, HARRY takes TOM to one side. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Tom, there s never a right time for these things 
                                        but... 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I m dealing with it, Harry. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  You ve already spoken to Christine? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I said I m dealing with it. 
 
TOM walks away. HARRY watches him. 
 
EXT. HOTEL - DAY 1. 1020 
 
RAFA emerges and hails a cab. 
 
                          VOICE IN HEADPHONE (V.O.) 



 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 8 

            We ve got movement. Rafa s leaving his hotel. 
 
We see RAFA s cab pull away. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 1. 1055 
 
RAFA s cab pulls up in salubrious looking neighbourhood. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                  Do you have the target, Bravo Three? 
 
                          VOICE IN HEADPHONE (V.O.) 
                Affirmative. Target arriving Maida Vale. 
 
RAFA gets out of the cab and enter a smart looking town house. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 1. 1055 
 
POV of the front door that RAFA has just entered. TOM watches 
the screen intently while a Surveillance Officer, sat beside 
him takes his headphones off and sits back. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 1. 1056 
 
MARIELA HERNANDEZ, an attractive twenty-something woman is 
sitting watching TV as RAFA comes in. He kisses her on the 
head, puts a briefcase down by side of sofa. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                  Hey pajarita, how s my little bird? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          Lonely. I thought you might come last night. You 
                            haven t been for ages. 
 
                                        RAFA 
        I ve been keeping an eye on a very important piece 
                                  of business. 
 
He takes the remote control and switches channel. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                        Hey, I was watching that... 
 
She tries to grab remote control but he moves it out of reach. 
They battle playfully for it. He holds her wrists. 
 
                        MARIELA (CONT D) (laughing) 
        You leave me all alone and then you walk into my 
                        house and take over the TV? 
 
                                        RAFA 
        And who works all night to buy you the house and 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 9 

            TV? Who pays for your studies while you sit 
                          watching romantic movies. 
 
                MARIELA (puts her arms around his neck) 
                  Why don t we just turn the TV off? 
 
He disentangles from her embrace, picks up the briefcase and 
holds it in front of her. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT'D) 
                                      Ay, no.. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                        This is all I ask you to do. 
 
He points the remote control at her as if she were a TV. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
                        Mute. No more complaining. 
 
Half joke/half order. She knows it. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        I don t like meeting him. And now he wants to take 
                                me to the opera. 
 
RAFA laughs. 
 
                                        RAFA 
        So go. Keep him happy but tell me if he even lays 
                                a finger on you. 
                                        (beat) 
              You can be an English lady for the night. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          I don t want to be an English lady. I want to be 
                                    with you. 
 
He pulls her up and puts the briefcase into her hand. 
 
EXT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 1. 1115 
 
Split Screen: POV from surveillance van. Front door of house 
opens. RAFA comes out accompanied by MARIELA. They pause on 
the street for a while talking and then part company. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 1. 1115 
 
Split Screen: TOM in van. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Here s the girlfriend. Take the girl, Bravo three. 
          Bravo five take Rafa. And let s send the binmen 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 10 

                                        in. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 1. 1116 
 
Split Screen MARIELA walking down the street. Behind her MI5 
Officer Bravo three speaking into cuff links. Bravo three 
crosses road. MARIELA passes a young person handing out 
leaflets who then turns and follows her. A Bentley pulls up 
alongside MARIELA and the back door opens. Click and 
freezeframe on image of MARIELA getting into the Bentley. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 1. 1116 
 
Split Screen: a group of binmen in private company jackets are 
removing rubbish from outside MARIELA s house. 
 
INT. BENTLEY - DAY 1. 1120 
 
The man inside we will know as ROSS VAUGHAN. He is a smart, 
well-tailored businessman, mid-fifties. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
              Hello, Mariela. Looking as lovely as ever. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 2. 0825 
 
MI5 operative in gloves going through a bag of rubbish. 
Building piles of rubbish - compiling a profile of their 
targets. Empty food packets; low fat yoghurt cartons and a 
healthy eating museli box are among empty bottles of 
cosmetics. Holds up a prospectus clearly marked from The 
Buckingham Business Centre. Puts it down next to 
correspondence from the Metro-Life gym. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 1630 
 
Team assembled. There is an image of VAUGHAN s Bentley on the 
screen. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            So the Bentley belongs to Ross Vaughan, the 
          Finance Director of PETCAL UK. Anybody care to 
        tell me why one of our leading oil executives was 
            giving a lift to the girlfriend of one of our 
                          leading narcoterrorists? 
 
ZOE nods at RUTH. She brings up a map of Colombia, highlights 
area. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        This is the infamous Chala. Provinicial capital of 
            a lawless region. Mountains, jungle, left-wing 
          guerillas, right-wing paramilitaries, drug lords, 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 11 

                            American Special Forces. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        OK, I ll cancel the holiday. But what s the link? 
 
                                        TOM 
      If you want to build a pipeline from the Colombian 
          oilfields to a sea port, you can t avoid Chala. 
 
                                        RUTH 
      So you need protection. During the 1980s, the most 
            senior PETCAL executive in Colombia was Ross 
                                      Vaughan. 
 
An image of ROSS VAUGHAN is brought up on the screen. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  So Rafa and Vaughan are old mates. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      He bought protection from the Chala Cartel and now 
                  they re getting protection from him? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Another reason why the Chala Cartel see London as 
          a window of opportunity. What have we found out 
                          about the girlfriend Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        She only goes out to go to the Gym. No family, no 
          friends, no letters from home. Even does an MBA 
                          course by correspondence. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Stay on her. We have two targets now, and she 
                                links them both. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Can we get some tea, please? Where the hell is 
                                        Sam? 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 1. 1635 
 
SAM is standing looking at the cards in newsagent window. 
Something catches her eye, her face is transformed. She 
scrabbles in her handbag for her mobile, punches in a number 
from one of the cards in the window. 
 
                                        SAM 
              Hello? Yes, it s about the palm-top you re 
        advertising? I d like to know a little more about 
          its games capacity. Does it have Giraffe? And 
                                      Hardball? 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 12 

                                        (beat) 
                  I understand. Yes, I understand. When? 
                                  (checks watch) 
                                        OK. 
 
She puts her mobile back in the bag. Walks away. Something 
very fishy here. 
 
INT. TESSA S OFFICE - DAY 1. 1700 
 
A desk with a woman working. Knock on door and woman looks up. 
It s TESSA. This is not the sparse office that TOM visited in 
earlier episode. TESSA has begun to make good on her promise 
to make a success of her firm - couple of flashy computers, 
smart office equipment. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                      Come in. 
 
Stay on TESSA and reaction to person who has just entered. 
TESSA smiles. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
                            Ah good. Hello, Sam. 
 
And go to person who has just come in. It s SAM. 
 
                                        SAM 
                  You ve got something for me to do? 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                        Yes. 
 
Hands her a palm-top. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT'D) 
            Your division are engaged in a confidential 
          operation against a Colombian drug cartel. Find 
        out about it. You know how to use this to download 
          the files we need. Sadly it has neither Giraffe 
                                  nor Hardball. 
 
SAM smiles. How does TESSA know about MI5 s operation? Is she 
working for the Chala Cartel? Is SAM a double agent as well? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1710 
 
DANNY working on his computer. Brings up a headshot of a young 
Latin American man. Underneath is the name CAMILO HENRIQUEZ. 
He presses PRINT and we see the image slide out of the 
printer. DANNY clips the image to a sheet and puts it on top 
of a sheaf of about seven similar documents with photos. Takes 
them to TOM. 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 13 

 
                                        DANNY 
        Take a look at these guys, Tom. They re a few of 
          the Colombians who work as cleaners for PETCAL. 
 
                          TOM (without looking up) 
                                        And? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            These names check out against a list of Chala 
        Cartel members sent to us from Spain. One of them 
              matches a man Rafa met on the first day of 
                                    surveillance. 
 
Tosses down photo of RAFA meeting man in street. TOM studies 
the photos. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT'D) 
            It s perfect cover for them. A transient and 
                                anonymous world. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Risky for Vaughan. To have them on his doorstep. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        He s on the twenty-fifth floor, they re probably 
          in the basement. Director of Finance can t be 
          expected to even know the names of the cleaning 
                                        staff. 
 
                                        TOM 
        So, this is where they plan their drug drops and 
        causal massacres. If we get in there, hopefully we 
            can find out where the weapons are stored. 
 
Flicks through sheaf of papers. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
        ..and one of these men will have an achilles heel. 
        Let s find it and use it. We re getting closer to 
                              the armoury, Danny. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 1. 2030 
 
Doorbell rings. TOM goes to open door and...it s CHRISTINE. 
She s holding takeaway and a bottle of wine. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              Hey, Mohammed, did you order a mountain? 
 
TOM gestures for her to come in, checks street after she has 
done so. 
 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 14 

INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 1. 2040 
 
They are sitting down drinking a glass of wine. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        So, you wanna tell me why you ve been ignoring my 
                                        calls? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Work and...you know. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              I m afraid I don t. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s been pointed out to me that our liaison is 
            not in the interests of national security. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Ah yes, national security, how I ve grown to love 
                                that expression. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  It s our job. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Yeah but we re good at subterfuge right? That s 
          how we got our jobs. That s what makes it kinda 
                  exciting - not playing by the rules. 
 
TOM stares at his wine. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (CONT D) 
                                You don t agree? 
 
                                        TOM 
          I m right in the middle of an operation. Maybe 
              after that, you know, we can take stock. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (amused) 
        Take stock? God, you are a nation of shopkeepers 
                                    after all. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Something happened that shouldn t have. I ve got 
        to...sort it out. I can t talk about it...not now. 
 
CHRISTINE appraises him calmly. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          That s too bad, Tom. I think you should talk to 
        me. You re right that it s our job. But it isn t 
                                    our life. 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 15 

 
                                        TOM 
                                      Isn t it? 
 
She gets up. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                            Don t you want to eat? 
 
CHRISTINE turns in the doorway. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I ll take a raincheck. 
 
The door slams behind her. TOM stares at the paper bag of food 
for a moment and then takes it over to the bin and drops it 
in. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 0830 
 
ZOE, TOM and DANNY sat around the Meeting room table around a 
computer. DANNY has the two photos of MARIELA entering and 
leaving the Bentley. Zooms in on the two briefcases. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      You see? 
 
                                    ZOE AND TOM 
                                        No. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          The cases look identical. But check the one she 
        gets out of the car with. It s got a scratch mark. 
                            (points to first case) 
This one hasn t. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          They re swapping briefcases. She makes sure that 
                  Vaughan and Rafa never have to meet. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          If we find out what s in the cases then we find 
            out what Vaughan is doing for Rafa. And vice 
                                        versa. 
 
                                        TOM 
          OK. You re going to be working with me on that, 
        Zoe. We ll turn the girl. She can get Vaughan to 
          talk. Whatever her moral defects she does have 
                    some other undeniable attributes. 
 




 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 16 

                                        DANNY 
              See if Vaughan gets loose-tongued as his 
                      testosterone levels rise. Nice. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          And she gets Vaughan to tell us exactly what? 
 
                                        TOM 
          What s the going rate for a judge nowadays? How 
            much does it cost to buy a member of Special 
          Branch? Is somebody in the Home Office reporting 
        what we re doing to the Chala Cartel as we speak? 
        How much are the lives of eight Customs and Excise 
                                Officers worth? 
 
A beat. 
 
                            TOM (CONT D) (softly) 
      We just don t know do we? Who they ve already got. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1700 
 
It s early evening, place is very quiet. ZOE and DANNY leaning 
confidentially. SAM prowling. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Do you think Tom s OK? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Whatever you do don t ask him. 
 
                                    SAM (O.S.) 
                                  Who s not OK? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Sam, you could catch a bloody antelope with those 
                                stalking skills. 
 
                            SAM (laughs shrilly) 
                    Sorry. Sorry, Zoe. I was just... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It s OK. I was talking about my brother. Private 
                                      matter. 
 
Gets up and walks away. SAM watches her, unsure about the new 
mood on the Grid. 
 
                                        SAM 
            Weren t we supposed to be going for a drink? 
 




 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 17 

                                        DANNY 
            Ah...can we wait until this job I m doing is 
                                      finished. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Sure. What are you up to? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      VAT fraud. Very very boring. 
 
An MI5 operative comes across and hands Danny some documents. 
Danny looks at them. Then he makes his way over to Tom. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
            We ve run background checks on all Rafa s men 
        working in PETCAL. I ve found us an achilles heel. 
                  It belongs to a Mr Camilo Henriquez. 
 
He shows Tom the documents who checks them quickly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  Thank you, Danny. Let s pull him in. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 2. 1705 
 
TOM and DANNY sit facing a young man. He s CAMILO HENRIQUEZ - 
the face from the photo DANNY showed TOM. In his early-
twenties at most, cocky looking, handsome. TOM takes out the 
sheaf of papers Danny showed him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Do you know what these are? 
 
CAMILO shakes his head dismissively 
 
                                        DANNY 
          They re Visiting Orders for Castlehaven Prison, 
        Camilo. You re quite a regular. It must be a great 
          comfort to your mother to have such a dedicated 
                                        son. 
 
CAMILO s face changes as TOM throws down the sheaf of Visiting 
Orders. TOM then produces a photo of a woman and holds it up. 
 
He leans forward, eyes hardening. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Losing your mother. 
                                  (shakes head) 
          That must be a terrible thing. And prisons are 
                            very dangerous places. 
 



 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 18 

                                        CAMILO 
                                Hijos de putas. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Oh I m sorry, I was under the impression that the 
        puta in question was your drug trafficking whore 
                                  of a mother. 
 
Even DANNY looks startled by this. Is TOM losing it? CAMILO 
leaps up and lunges at TOM. DANNY quickly restrains him. 
 
                                CAMILO (shouting) 
        You know nothing about my mother. Everything she 
          did she did for us, for my family. I have to be 
                                    near her. 
 
He is nearly crying with rage. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I apologise, Camilo. It was just... a little test. 
 
Gets up and leaves, nodding to DANNY on his way out. CAMILO 
looks at DANNY. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                        Your boss is a real bastard. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Worse than yours? We know you work for Rafa. 
 
He throws a photo of RAFA and CAMILO meeting down on the 
table. 
 
                                CAMILO (resigned) 
                  What do you want me to do for you? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1715 
 
SAM sits down in DANNY s seat. Takes out the palm-top and 
switches it on.  Please wait - Loading  message comes up. Then 
a bleep and  Ready to download . SAM feels around the back of 
DANNY s computer and takes out a lead. About to connect it 
when... 
 
                                    ZOE (O.S.) 
                                    Very nice. 
 
SAM jumps out of her skin. ZOE reappears from behind her. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        What are you doing at Danny s station? Downloading 
                                    his diary? 
 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 19 

                                        SAM 
        I got this for my birthday and I want to be able 
        to connect it to a proper monitor. When I try at 
                home though it just won t work. I don t 
                                      understand. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          For your birthday? You ve got generous friends. 
                              Shall I take a look? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    Sure but... 
                                  (checks watch) 
        can we do it tomorrow? I ve got to meet somebody. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            No problem. If I m not around, try Malcolm. 
                                Flatter his ego. 
 
                        SAM (fluttering eyelashes) 
      Oh please, kind Sir, I m just a feeble little girl 
          who doesn t understand all this new technology. 
                What does this button marked  ON  do? 
 
ZOE laughs. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            See you tomorrow, Sam. 
                                        (beat) 
                            Meeting someone nice? 
 
                                        SAM 
                            An old schoolfriend. 
 
ZOE nods and smiles. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 2. 1717 
 
CAMILO and DANNY. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  What do you know about an armoury? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                Is it a place where weapons are kept? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Under the circumstances, I would suggest that 
        being a smart arse is not your best strategy here, 
          Camilo. Let s try again. The Chala Cartel has a 
                      substantial armoury. Where is it? 
 



 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 20 

                                        CAMILO 
                  I don t know. I m just a messenger. 
 
                                  DANNY (sighs) 
          OK, Camilo, here s the deal. We met on Clapham 
        Common playing football, you re going to vouch for 
      me to get me a job and then...you re going to show 
            me exactly where the Chala Cartel hold their 
                                      meetings. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                They ll kill us both if they find out. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              They won t find out. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 2. 2000 
 
ZOE and TOM facing each other across a glass of wine and some 
pasta. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    So, Katy. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Jack. 
 
                                        TOM 
            You work in publishing. Impulsive, generous-
          spirited, a little over the top at times, I have 
                                to rein you in. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You re a risk analyst. Withdrawn, slightly aloof, 
        reserved with people. Cold even. People are unsure 
                            what you re thinking. 
                                        (beat) 
        Hold on, I thought you were meant to be assuming a 
                            new personality here. 
 
                                  TOM (laughs) 
              It s all just a form of protection, Katy. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Underneath you re really sensitive, right? I think 
                Mariela might like this stern but sexy 
                                    combination. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    It s always worked for me before. 
 




 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 21 

Obvious ambiguity about whether it is now TOM or Jack they re 
talking about. ZOE smiles and TOM tosses photos across table. 
Two kids on the beach. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
        Family holiday. Sherringham. You were three and I 
        was five. You kept getting lost and we all laughed 
          at you crying because you were only a few yards 
                              from our parents. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Our parents? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Mum was a lecturer. Dad was a top civil servant. 
        His big hobby was ornithology - always longed to 
                            go to Latin America. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        But tragically on the way back from Sherringham. 
              Car meets lorry. We were in the back. You 
                                remember, I don t. 
 
                                        TOM 
                We went to stay with our grandparents. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        I remember the train journey. I was shocked at how 
                yellow the fields of oilseed rape were. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You ate too much chocolate and got sick. Overdoing 
                                  it as always. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          You looked after me. We ve taken care of each 
                              other ever since. 
 
                                        TOM 
        We re family. We ll always look after each other. 
 
Holds her gaze for a moment. She completely understands the 
underlying message. 
 
INT. GYM - DAY 3. 0900 
 
The gym is quite crowded. ZOE fustrated watches the man on the 
machine next to MARIELA. He s totally hogging the machine, 
taking long meditative breaks between circuits. Finally... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                Sorry, I think your 20 minutes is up. 
 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 22 

The man reluctantly gets up and moves to another machine. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                                      Thanks! 
 
ZOE hops onto the machine starts working out. She turns to 
MARIELA. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
            Guys. They ll never get off if it s a woman 
                                      waiting. 
 
But MARIELA s not biting. Just smiles politely. ZOE tries to 
change the weight on the machine. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
          These things! Don t suppose you ve got any idea 
                                how this works? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  Put it down before you move the pin. 
                                    (shows her) 
                                    Like that. 
 
She returns to her weights. 
 
INT. PETCAL HEADQUARTERS. CORRIDOR - DAY 3. 0905 
 
DANNY is mopping the floor. A couple of suits walk past him, 
ignoring him completely. He glances at his watch and goes back 
to his cleaning and sees CAMILO at the end of the corridor. 
CAMILO walks towards DANNY. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                              You missed a bit. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          And you re late. Show me where they hold their 
                                      meetings. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
              This is not the best idea you ve ever had. 
 
He looks around. Underneath his banter, CAMILO is terrified. 
 
INT. GYM - DAY 3. 0910 
 
Fire alarm suddenly goes off. 
 
                                VOICE ON TANNOY 
        This is a fire alarm. Please leave the gym. Do not 
                        collect your belongings... 
 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 23 

General groans and slow exodus as everybody collects their 
belongings. ZOE walks out alongside MARIELA. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 3. 0911 
 
TOM gets called on his mobile. He walks and listens. 
 
                                        TOM 
        OK, where are they now? Good. Zoe knows to sit by 
                                    the window? 
                              (clicks mobile shut) 
                                        Right. 
 
He hangs up. 
 
INT. GYM - DAY 3. 0915 
 
ZOE and MARIELA. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Do you really think there s a fire? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                      No. This is always happening. 
 
As they file out, ZOE deliberately tips her bag open and stuff 
falls out of it including several CDs. MARIELA stops to help 
her. She picks up a CD and inspects it. It is Joe Arroyo. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT D) 
                            You like Joe Arroyo? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  You know him? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  I m Colombian. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Wow. I love Joe Arroyo. 
 
As they leave with the other gym members. 
 
EXT. GYM - DAY 3. 0920 
 
ZOE and MARIELA chat outside the gym, waiting. ZOE is doing 
all the talking. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Those were my two New Year resolutions - get fit 
            and learn to dance salsa before I go with my 
                          brother to South America. 
 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 24 

                                      MARIELA 
                    How are you doing with the salsa? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Not as well as my brother. 
                                  (checks watch) 
            Oh this could take ages. I m going to grab a 
                          coffee, do you want one? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                          It s OK. I ll wait here. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Oh come on. I ll buy you a cake. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        A cake? You want us to waste all the time we spend 
                                        here? 
 
But something s flickering in MARIELA. She s responding to 
human contact. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Hey you could eat a whole bakery and not worry. 
          Please? I want to talk to a real Latin American. 
                                        (beat) 
        My salsa teacher s a PE instructor from Stockport 
                                  and it shows. 
 
MARIELA laughs, hesitates and then... 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  Come on then. 
                                      (jokingly) 
                                  But no cake. 
 
INT. PETCAL HEADQUARTERS - DAY 3. 0925 
 
DANNY and CAMILO turn into a corridor and look along it at a 
closed door. CAMILO is very nervous. Keeps glancing around. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          That s where they meet? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                                    Yes but... 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Right, you keep an eye out. I ll be a few seconds 
                                      maximum. 
 
DANNY heads down the corridor towards the door. CAMILO stands 
on corner of corridor. 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 25 

 
INT. PETCAL HEADQUARTERS. BOARDROOM - DAY 3. 0926 
 
Split Screen: It s a basement room full of cleaning equipment. 
DANNY takes a bugging device out of his pocket and looks 
around for a suitable spot. Climbs on chair and undoes a 
fluorescent light strip cover. He s about to put the bugging 
device inside when he drops it. Curses and gets off chair to 
retrieve it. Tries again and succeeds but then freezes as he 
hears voices from outside. 
 
INT. PETCAL HEADQUARTERS. CORRIDOR - DAY 3. 0926 
 
Split Screen: CAMILO keeping watch sees three scary looking 
Colombians coming down corridor. Glances behind him for DANNY 
and then moves down corridor to detain them. Starts talking 
and joking with them very loudly hoping to alert DANNY. But he 
can t hold them back any longer and they continue walking and 
enter room... 
 
INT. PETCAL HEADQUARTERS CLEANING ROOM - DAY 3. 0928 
 
...where there is no Danny! Then they pick up some bags from 
the corner of the room and leave. A moment and then we see 
DANNY is hidden, spread-eagled in the ceiling space behind 
some vents. 
 
INT. COFFEE BAR - DAY 3. 0930 
 
ZOE and MARIELA. Both eating massive Danish pastries. ZOE 
checks her watch. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        No point in going back now. I m going to wait for 
                                        Jack. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                Your boyfriend? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          My brother. You ll like him, all the girls do. 
        I ve given up on men, they re just so unreliable. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                              They re not all bad. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Have you got a boyfriend? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
              Someone from home. He s everything to me. 
                                      (laughs) 



 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 26 

        Always buying me presents. He really spoils me. I 
                      met him when I was very young. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Ahhh, childhood sweethearts. Oh look, there s 
                                        Jack. 
 
She bangs on the window as TOM goes passed. He grins in 
recognition and comes into cafe. MARIELA appraises him coolly. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
        This is Mariela from the gym. She s Colombian and 
                she dances salsa. Isn t that amazing? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Not particularly, Katy. 
 
MARIELA laughs. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I ve had an idea. What if you made something to 
          eat and Mariela taught us, well me really, some 
                basic steps. Oh say you will, Mariela. 
 
She s got the breathless, Katy from publishing perfectly. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          I m sorry I couldn t. I m busy studying at the 
                                      moment. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Leave the poor girl alone, Katy. 
                      (gives Mariela a lovely smile) 
            My sister s the impulsive one. Can I get you 
                                      anything? 
 
                        MARIELA (looking at her cake) 
                    I think Katy s done enough damage. 
 
TOM gestures for a coffee. ZOE watches MARIELA who s watching 
TOM. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 3. 1030 
 
MARIELA comes into house. RAFA is pacing up and down talking 
in Spanish on mobile. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                          Bueno por eso te pago... 
 
Sees MARIELA and clicks mobile shut. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT'D) 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 27 

                      You ve been more than an hour. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  There was a fire alarm at the gym. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                              Was there a fire? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          No. BEAT So I went for a coffee with one of the 
                                        girls. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                                        What? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          While we were waiting. We had a coffee. She was 
                                        nice. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                    You should have just come home. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        Why? I can t even talk to a girl at the gym now? I 
            didn t know you d be here. You never tell me. 
 
She has been talking to his back but now he turns around at 
this defiance. 
 
                                        RAFA 
          I m working. I can t always tell you when I can 
                        come. It s easy for you... 
 
                                      MARIELA 
              Easy for me? Locked up here all the time. 
 
                                        RAFA 
            Look, girls like that are different from you, 
                                      pajarita. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            Girls like what? She just bought me a cake. 
 
                                        RAFA 
        Well, I bought you something too. But maybe now I 
                            won t give it to you. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                          You bought me a present? 
 
He laughs and picks up a bag and hands it to her. She takes it 
out of bag and unwraps a glass swan. Stares at it for a 
moment. 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 28 

 
                                        RAFA 
          You remember the swans on the river in Chala. 
              That s what I thought of when I bought it. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                              It s really pretty. 
 
                                        RAFA 
            It is the only one like that ever made. It s 
          unique. Look it comes with a certificate and a 
          little book that tells you who made it. That s 
                                    craftsmanship. 
 
He admires his swan proudly and then puts it down with the 
utmost care. Strokes her face. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
                Look at you. So graceful, so perfect... 
 
His hands move down her face and onto her body. She closes her 
eyes, responding to his touch. 
 
            RAFA (CONT D) (murmuring as he caresses her) 
                ...your neck is prettier than any swan. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                Let s go to bed. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 4. 1000 
 
RUTH is sitting in front of monitors listening intently, 
transcripts are spooling out of printer. She throws off 
headphones, gathers transcripts, checks them briefly and 
dashes across the empty Grid. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 4. 1005 
 
HARRY is sitting working as RUTH bursts in. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              Ruth I m kind of... 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Harry, these are transcripts from the room in 
        PETCAL that Danny bugged. You have to read them. 
 
She hands him the transcripts. His brow darkens and he picks 
up phone. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Redflash Tom, Danny and Zoe and make arrangements 
                              to bring them in. 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 29 

 
Exchanges a look with RUTH. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 4. 1100 
 
HARRY, TOM, ZOE, DANNY and RUTH are assembled. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        The Chala Cartel are going to swap a shipment of 
                  drugs for Surface to Air missiles. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            That s crazy. Why do drug traffickers need... 
 
RUTH touches laptop. Brings up image of blackened airline 
wreckage strewn about. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        There is a precedent. When the Colombians cracked 
        down on the drug cartels in the 1990s, it really 
            wasn t advisable to take an internal flight. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              They d do that here? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            They incinerated thirty teenagers in Madrid 
                  because of two deportations remember. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s how they operate. Leave us alone or we ll 
                                really hurt you. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          So, why don t we leave them alone? Why prod the 
                                        snake? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Good idea Ruth. Let s leave everybody alone and 
          give every snake what it wants. Then the world 
        will be one big happy nest of vipers and you can 
                                go back to GCHQ. 
 
RUTH s head goes down. A beat. Profoundly uncomfortable 
atmosphere. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                  Sorry, Ruth. 
 
She nods but doesn t look up. 
 




 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 30 

                                        DANNY 
          At least we can stop them getting hold of the 
                                  missiles now. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Wrong... 
 
ZOE s pager bleeps. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Sorry. Must go. Operation Briefcase. 
 
TOM nods assent. She leaves. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        What do you mean wrong? It won t be difficult to 
                  find out where the swap takes place. 
 
                                        TOM 
          OK, we intercept the missiles? To follow Ruth s 
          analogy that is a bit like grabbing hold of the 
            cobra s tail before we ve got rid of all its 
                                        venom. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Does a snake have a tail? 
 
TOM shoots him a look. Not the time to be facetious. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Well, I m not going to let the Chala Cartel take 
          control of those missiles. It s too dangerous. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s our only option. We put a tracker on the 
          missiles. That will lead us to the rest of their 
          weapons. We lock down their armoury until we re 
            ready to strike. Come on, Harry, this isn t a 
                        problem it s a breakthrough. 
 
TOM s getting a little manic. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    But how do we get the tracker on? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Your man Camilo. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Masterful. We let a stack of illegal drugs into 
        the country and allow them to be traded with God 
            knows which Eastern European mafia for highly 
          lethal weapons. We can all sleep easy, however, 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 31 

          because we re coercing a renegade Colombian into 
        sticking a tracker on them for us. I can t wait to 
                          tell the Home Secretary. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      And your plan is what, Harry? 
 
HARRY dumb. It s insubordination but he knows TOM is right. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 4. 1145 
 
ZOE waiting in a car. 
 
                              VOICE IN HEADPHONE 
              Target One has been dropped by Vaughan. In 
          possession of briefcase. You have twenty seconds. 
 
ZOE gets out of car. MARIELA comes into view with briefcase. 
ZOE on other side of the road with gym kit. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Mariela! 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                      Oh hi, Katy. Been to the gym? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Step class. I m shattered. The instructor s a 
                  total Nazi. Shall we grab a coffee? 
 
MARIELA looks nervously at bag but she s clearly tempted. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                      I can t. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Oh come on. Big news. Jack s just split up from 
                                his girlfriend. 
 
MARIELA hesitates. But  Jack  swings it for her. 
 
                    ZOE (CONT D) (mock imploringly) 
                                      Please. 
 
MARIELA laughs and ZOE grabs her arm. 
 
INT. COFFEE BAR - DAY 4. 1150 
 
MARIELA and ZOE. MARIELA with back to door, briefcase under 
seat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  I never liked her much anyway, but... 


 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 32 

 
At that point somebody passing spills ZOE s cup of coffee into 
her lap. She leaps up. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
                              You bloody idiot! 
 
Backs away from table. MARIELA also jumps up and starts 
offering her napkins to wipe herself. The person at table 
behind them slides a briefcase under table, picks up MARIELA s 
and walks out of coffee shop. ZOE continues to make a song and 
dance drawing MARIELA away from table. She s burned her hand, 
MARIELA solicitous. Until she turns and notices... 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        The case! Somebody s stolen my case. Katy, we have 
                                    to find it. 
 
INT. CAR. STREET OUTSIDE COFFEE BAR - DAY 4. 1151 
 
MI5 operative with briefcase open with a tiny camera making 
snapshots of each sheet. Then he shuts it and jumps out of the 
car with the briefcase. 
 
INT. COFFEE BAR - DAY 4. 1152 
 
MARIELA hysterically searching under table. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Nobody s stolen it. It s here. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        That s not mine. You don t understand. I must find 
                                        it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Somebody s taken yours by mistake. Don t worry 
                                they ll realise. 
 
And at that point, MI5 operative comes into coffee bar holding 
MARIELA s briefcase. He sees ZOE holding  his  briefcase. 
 
                                  MI5 OPERATIVE 
        Sorry. This must be yours. That s mine. I picked 
          up the wrong one. Thought I d lost my mobile. 
 
Opens his own briefcase, produces mobile and waves it 
triumphantly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                What did I say? 
                          (gestures for two coffees) 



 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 33 

        Now listen. Please come round and teach me a few 
        dance steps. Jack s been boasting how much better 
              he is than me. Please? Be my friend here. 
 
And MARIELA, relieved to be back in possession of bag and also 
in need of a friend smiles and nods. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 4. 1215 
 
MI5 OPERATIVE who we saw photographing the documents comes in 
and hands papers to RUTH. She looks at them for a moment and 
then makes her way to HARRY s office. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 4. 1217 
 
HARRY and RUTH are looking through the documents. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Bearer bonds. Anonymous shares in dummy companies 
        which can be exchanged as easily as cash but not 
        traced. Explains why I ve found no dirt on anybody 
                                        yet. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        And details of drug pickups. Vaughan uses the huge 
          PETCAL apparatus to help bring the drugs in and 
          then make the money vanish. How much commission 
                              does he charge Rafa? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Even 5% of their proceeds is an awful lot of 
                                        money. 
 
HARRY gets up and starts to pace around his office. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We must get the girl and use her on Vaughan. Find 
                  out who else is implicated in this. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            If it ever got out... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          It can never get out, Ruth. Whatever happens to 
        the Chala Cartel, this will have to be smothered. 
 
EXT. BALCONY - DAY 4. 1230 
 
DANNY and CAMILO. They are out of uniform. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Why didn t you tell me? 
 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 34 

                                        CAMILO 
                                  Tell you what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            About the arms deal. You went to a meeting in 
          which the exchange of cocaine for missiles was 
                                      discussed. 
                                    (mimics him) 
                           I m just the messenger . 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        OK, next time they ask me to go to a meeting I ll 
          tell them that I can t because I m working for 
                                        you. 
                                        (beat) 
        They wanted me there because I have to go to the 
                                      exchange. 
 
                      DANNY (through gritted teeth) 
                          You should have told me. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        Why should I? I put my life at risk and all you re 
            offering in return is not to kill my mother? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Who said anything about that? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
          So what does  very nasty things can happen in 
        prison  mean? You called her a whore. You like to 
          think that you re different from us right, that 
                          we re the violent ones. 
 
He laughs bitterly. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Well, I m not hanging out in your country 
          threatening to shoot down planes if I don t get 
                              what I want am I? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
        You don t need to. Maybe you should find out what 
                      you are doing in my country. 
                                        (beat) 
              I do what you tell me to do. Nothing more. 
 
DANNY s mobile rings. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 4. 2000 
 
ZOE is opening a bottle of wine at the table. MARIELA is 
talking to TOM by the bookshelf. She picks up the photo. 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 35 

 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  Your parents? 
 
TOM glances at ZOE. Speaks quietly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                          Do they live in London? 
 
                                        TOM 
          They re dead. Killed in a car crash when we were 
        children. She doesn t remember anything about it. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                    But you do? 
 
TOM nods. There s so much dignified suffering in there... 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 4. 2130 
 
Door opens and RAFA comes into house carrying a cake box from 
an expensive patisserie. Calls out... 
 
                                        RAFA 
                                      Mariela? 
 
The house is empty. He is less than pleased. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 4. 2145 
 
ZOE is sitting at the table and grinning as she watches 
MARIELA and TOM laughing as she tries to teach him some basic 
dance steps. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        Move your waist...not so stiff...no you re the man 
      so you have to lead me...I thought you said he was 
                                    good, Katy. 
 
                              TOM (also laughing) 
                            I am. Compared to her. 
 
They collapse back at the table. MARIELA sips more wine. She 
is flushed and happy, obviously hasn t had this kind of 
contact for ages. TOM goes into the kitchen. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        He s nice your brother, a real English gentleman. 
                                        (beat) 
                      He told me about your parents. 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 36 

 
ZOE casts her eyes down. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT D) 
        My family were murdered, Katy. My father was the 
            Mayor of Chala. He was killed along with my 
                        mother, brother and sister. 
 
TOM in doorway unseen listening. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Did you see this? Where were you? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        It was just before my fifteenth birthday. I went 
      to buy a dress in town with my grandmother, it was 
            a very hot day, I had a bottle of coke in a 
                                      cafe... 
 
TOM closes his eyes. ZOE takes MARIELA s hand sympathetically. 
Looks at the lapiz lazuli ring on her finger. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                That s so pretty. 
 
MARIELA takes it off. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  Look inside. 
 
                                  ZOE (reading) 
                      A mi...I can hardly make it out. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                A mi querida hija. Fourth of May, 1991. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          To my darling daughter? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          My father and I shared the same birthday so my 
                      mother gave us identical rings. 
                                (laughs bitterly) 
        His was never found. They even stole my family s 
                    jewellery after they killed them. 
 
TOM comes back into the living room with a steaming casserole. 
 
                                  TOM (proudly) 
                          Conejo guisado con coco. 
 
MARIELA claps. 
 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 37 

                                      MARIELA 
                I hope you cook better than you dance. 
 
She smiles at him and TOM suddenly flashes her a look. It is 
full of deep human sympathy for the damaged young woman. ZOE 
catches it and smiles as well. A really tender moment after 
all the stress. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 4. 2245 
 
MARIELA comes into house. Goes to kitchen and runs a glass of 
water. Startled by RAFA suddenly appearing behind her. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                I didn t think you would come tonight. 
 
                    RAFA (icy cold, he s in a rage) 
                              Where have you been? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            The girl from the gym. She invited me to her 
                                        house. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                          And who else was there? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                            Nobody. Just us girls. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                            You ve been drinking. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
              We only had a bottle of wine between us. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                            What did I say to you? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        Don t be angry. I had a nice time with a friend. 
        Why should that make you so angry. I m only young. 
 
She tries to put her arms around him, he holds her away. 
 
                                        RAFA 
      It would be better for whoever this girl is if you 
            did not see her again. Do you understand me? 
 
She stares at him, horrified with what he is saying. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
        You understand me? You don t see that girl again. 
 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 38 

She nods. He tilts her chin up so that she is looking at him. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
                      You want to help me don t you? 
 
She nods again. He unwraps the box of cakes and offers her 
one. She shakes her head. He takes out a cake and holds it to 
her mouth. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
          I bought them for you. Eat. It will soak up the 
                                      alcohol 
 
A moment. His eyes are still hard with rage. She bites. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 4. 2300 
 
ZOE is washing, TOM is drying. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Terrible story about her family. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I know. 
 
ZOE looks down at her hands in the water. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Playing on her loneliness. It s... 
 
                                        TOM 
        Unpleasant? Morally questionable? That s the world 
                                we live in, Zoe. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      But how far do we go with her? 
 
                                        TOM 
          A drugs cartel is about to secure missiles which 
        could be used to take out a plane full of innocent 
          people. One of our top businessmen is laundering 
          money for them. Somebody in Customs and Excise 
        probably received some of those laundered funds in 
        exchange for a massacre of his own men. We have to 
                        go as far as it takes, Zoe. 
 
ZOE looks down at her hands in the soapy water. 
 
INT. TESSA S OFFICE - DAY 5. 0830 
 
TESSA and SAM. 
 



 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 39 

                                        SAM 
                    Zoe nearly caught me with this... 
 
Passes TESSA the palm-top. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                              What did she say? 
 
                                        SAM 
          She wanted to see it. Said it wasn t standard 
                                        issue. 
 
                                  TESSA (laughs) 
            It certainly isn t. Poor Harry would go into 
                  budgetary arrest. What did you say? 
 
                                        SAM 
                    I said it was a birthday present. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                            Did she believe you? 
 
                                        SAM 
                              Yeah. I m certain. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Good. I think it s time that Zoe and I had the 
            little chat I ve been so looking forward to. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1015 
 
TOM and ZOE. TOM is highly wrought. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          We arranged to meet for coffee, she didn t show 
                                        up. 
 
                                        TOM 
          But the evening went well. What s gone wrong? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              I don t know, Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You ve got to keep working on her. I want to get 
          close to Vaughan. I m relying on you here, Zoe. 
 
He walks away. She stares after him. SAM appears with an 
envelope. 
 
                                        SAM 
                              This just arrived. 
 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 40 

ZOE looks at it. It is marked for her. Private and 
confidential. She sits at her station and opens it. The note 
reads:  I have Colombian information. Oxford Circus north 
side. 4pm. Come alone. Durbeyfield  ZOE looks at TOM who is 
sitting in a state of nervous depression. Makes an executive 
decision. 
 
EXT. OXFORD CIRCUS - DAY 5. 1600 
 
ZOE is stood waiting, face set hard. The crowds of shoppers 
bustle around her. Through the crowds a figure approaches her. 
ZOE s face as she recognises... 
 
                                        TESSA 
                                Hello, stranger. 
 
ZOE composes herself. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Tessa. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        We never had a chance to say goodbye properly did 
                                      we, Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    I m not a big one for farewells. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                            Oh I rather like them. 
                                        (beat) 
        I was most disappointed by the decision you made, 
                Zoe. I thought you were a lot cleverer. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Cleverer? Or greedier? 
 
                                        TESSA 
          More clear sighted at least. Look at who you re 
        working with. Harry - well there are a few things 
          I could tell you about his grace under pressure. 
        Tom - talented but a time-bomb. Danny - not quite 
        an empty vessel but he does rather rattle if you 
                                    shake him. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Well I guess every team has its strengths and its 
          weaknesses. But it must be very different being 
                            completely on your own. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh, it has advantages. It s nice not to be a slave 
        to whatever new identity they choose to give you, 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 41 

        see who you like without people watching you. You 
                      know what a bind that can be. 
 
She smiles benignly at ZOE as if she knows everything about 
her and her personal life. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
                            How is everybody? Tom? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Tom s fine. 
 
                                        TESSA 
            Really? I would have thought Harry would have 
          taken rather a dim view of interagency liasons. 
          And then this Colombian operation started very 
                                      messily. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          If you want to discuss Tom then I suggest you 
                organise your next rendezvous with him. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                          OK. Let s discuss Rafa. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Rafa? 
 
TESSA smiles in a  let s not play games  kind of way. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Back in the eighties, a group of Libyan special 
          operatives were in Colombia directing a guerilla 
          training mission around Chala. Rafa and his men 
          took exception to their presence, there was a 
          falling out and it all ended very unpleasantly. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            You re working for the Libyans. Makes sense. 
 
                                  TESSA (laughs) 
          I prefer to see them as part of my substantial 
                                client portfolio. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Your clients could surely just take Rafa out. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh, Zoe, Libya is no longer a pariah state. They 
                    don t want to tread on any toes. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              So what s the deal? 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 42 

 
                                        TESSA 
        You re not doing very well trying to turn Mariela 
            Hernandez. My clients can help you with some 
        rather explosive information that will facilitate 
        your task. In return, all they require is that you 
        allow them to dispose of Rafa at the end. Rather 
          good terms given the mess you ve made of this. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                I ll have to get back to you on that. 
 
                                        TESSA 
                              Don t take too long. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
        I love this time of day. The light s changing and 
        you can just feel the energy of the city. Do you 
                                    feel that? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Yes but I think we ll use the phone from now on. I 
        have to get back. I need to speak to my team about 
                                    your offer. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        All right. Get back to me when you ve OK d it with 
                                  Tom and Harry. 
 
ZOE turns to leave and then turns back again. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Tessa? I d do it again. You know that don t you? 
          It was a very painful thing to have to do but I 
        have never doubted that I did the right thing when 
                                  I reported you. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          Ah, Zoe, you re so like me in some ways. Always 
                            wanting the last word. 
 
ZOE opens her mouth. Then shuts it again, shaking her head she 
smiles. TESSA also smiles, a moment of almost affection 
between them. Then TESSA turns and disappears, the late 
afternoon sun is dropping. ZOE stares at TESSA s back as she 
swallowed up by the crowds and then walks away. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 5. 1730 
 
TOM, HARRY and ZOE. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 43 

                                        TOM 
              You did what? That was bloody dangerous. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Dangerous? That woman has the morality of a puff 
                                        adder. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            The operation had stalled. You said you were 
        relying on me. As far as it takes, remember, Tom? 
        If Tessa says this is explosive information then 
                              we really want it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          What I want to know - no, sorry let me rephrase 
          that - what I insist on knowing is how she knew 
          all about our operation. If Tessa can do it... 
 
TOM s thinking. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Do the deal. And let s find that bloody leak. 
 
EXT. STREET - EVENING 5. 1800 
 
MARIELA is walking and we see the familiar Bentley turn the 
corner and cruise along beside her. The door opens. 
 
INT. BENTLEY - EVENING 5. 1801 
 
MARIELA and ROSS VAUGHAN. He holds out two tickets. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                  Rigoletto. I think you ll enjoy it. 
 
He is looking at her like a fox approaching an unprotected 
henhouse. She is clearly uncomfortable. 
 
                                VAUGHAN (CONT D) 
        I must thank Rafa for lending me such a beautiful 
                                        escort 
 
INT. MI5 SAFEHOUSE - NIGHT 5. 2130 
 
Danny is sleeping when the door gently opens. It s ZOE. DANNY 
mumbles, wakes, turns around blinking. She waves a bottle of 
vodka in a way that suggests she s already had a few. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Zoe! What are you doing here? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Sorry to wake you. 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 44 

 
She sits down on the bed beside him. Shakes him gently. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What are you doing? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      I wanted to see if you rattled. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        What are you on about? Do I? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Not at all. 
                                        (beat) 
                              Danny, I met Tessa. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Tessa! Did you clear that with Tom? 
 
ZOE shakes her head. DANNY looks suitably shocked at ZOE s 
unilateralism. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              It was... strange. 
 
DANNY knocks gently on ZOE s head. 
 
                                        DANNY 
              Come out, Tessa, I know you re in there. 
 
ZOE laughs. This is exactly what she needs. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT'D) 
            And how s your new laugh-a-minute flatmate? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Driven. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Yeah, he needs to take his foot off the 
                                    accelerator. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      If he does he might fall over. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            I think we all might. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                No, no, Danny, you ve done a great job. 
                                      (smiling) 



 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 45 

          Armed with only your natural intelligence and a 
                                        mop. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Funny. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                It does stretch credibility a little. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Yeah right, I do all the washing up at home. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Well, hopefully, your part will be short and 
                                        sweet. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Short and Straw are the two words in my mind at 
                                    the moment. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Danny, without you, we d never have found out 
                              about the missiles. 
 
She looks back at DANNY he s fallen asleep again. ZOE pulls 
the cover over him and kisses him very very lightly on the 
forehead. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                                  Sweet dreams. 
 
She puts the bottle on the bedside table and leaves. 
 
EXT. OXFORD CIRCUS - DAY 6. 1200 
 
ZOE is standing in the spot where she met TESSA. She looks 
into the crowd and waits. A woman hurries passed, jostling 
her, forcing a large envelope into ZOE s hands. ZOE scans the 
crowd, but the woman has disappeared. She looks down at the 
envelope that she has been  handed . 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 6. 0800 
 
The envelope is on the table opened. TOM, ZOE, HARRY, RUTH. 
They are all examining dossiers. ZOE looks up clearly shocked. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Rafa killed Mariela s family. 
 
                                  RUTH (reading) 
          The Chala Cartel were disguised as guerillas. 
                                    (looking up) 
        It s a classic tactic. This is blue chip material. 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 46 

 
                                        HARRY 
              Tessa s many things but she s no amateur. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        And then he just took over her life like she was 
          some kind of war trophy. She was only fifteen! 
 
                                        TOM 
        He must have appeared as her saviour at the time. 
              Which makes me wonder if she will believe 
                              (indicated dossier) 
                              this after so long. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        If we break cover and she doesn t, then our whole 
                              operation is blown. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We need something else. Something concrete. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Her father s ring. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 6. 1500 
 
A forger in a white coat is bent over a lapiz lazuli ring 
which they are working on. He holds it up so it gleams in the 
light. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 6. 1530 
 
RUTH and TOM in muted conversation. Pause as SAM passes them 
carrying papers. She looks back. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            The leak started in Madrid. CESID have North 
        African connections so that s how the Libyans got 
                                    hold of it. 
 
                                        TOM 
          But since then? It makes no sense. Tessa knew 
                  everything, Ruth. Who s feeding her? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                      Tom, I hope you don t think... 
 
                                        TOM 
          I don t, Ruth. But we ve got to find out who it 
                                        is. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Tessa? 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 47 

 
                                        TOM 
          Non-starter. She d love one of us to interrogate 
            her. When it comes to mind games, she taught 
                  Hannibal Lecter everything he knows. 
 
RUTH giggles in the way that people do when somebody of whom 
they are totally in awe cracks a joke. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Well we have one lead. Somebody downloaded files 
                          onto a palm top device. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Follow it up, Ruth. Work on nothing else. Find me 
          the leak before we have a much more dangerous 
                              flood on our hands. 
 
EXT. BALCONY - DAY 6. 1600 
 
DANNY and CAMILO - out of uniform. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
              You re letting them get the weapons? Why? 
 
DANNY holds up a tiny tracking device. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Yours is not to reason why, Camilo. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                                      Oh no... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Oh yes. You simply attach this. It couldn t be 
                                      easier. 
 
                                        CAMILO 
                                      No way. 
 
DANNY produces a brown envelope from his pocket. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            These come with new identities in the United 
            States and an early parole hearing for your 
              mother. What other options have you got? 
 
                                        CAMILO 
              I was thinking of forming a panpipe band? 
 
DANNY laughs. CAMILO reaches for the envelope but DANNY puts 
it back in his pocket. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 48 

INT. CAR - DAY 6. 1630 
 
ZOE and TOM are parked outside MARIELA s house. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Bravo Two do you still have a visual on Rafa? 
 
                              VOICE IN HEADPHONE 
                              Affirmative, Unit One. 
 
MARIELA HERNANDEZ walking down the street carrying her gym 
stuff. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You know what we re about to do don t you. We re 
                            about to destroy her. 
 
TOM holds her look. They jump out of the van and walk briskly 
towards MARIELA. She stops, bewildered, when she sees them. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  Katy? Jack? What are you doing here. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Our names are not Katy and Jack, Mariela. 
 
MARIELA s face is one of absolute panic and bewilderment. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                              What do you mean? 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 6. 1645 
 
MARIELA looks through the contents of the wooden cigar box 
slowly, absorbing what she is seeing, remnants of her past - 
odd artefacts, photos, a child s toy, an article of woman s 
clothing. The glitter of a ring catches her eye. She picks it 
up out of the box and turns it round and round in her hand. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We took the box from Rafa s hotel room this 
          morning, Mariela. Like many murderers he removes 
            souvenirs from his victims. And sometimes... 
 
She picks up a photo of a kneeling man being executed. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                    ...photographs of their execution. 
 
MARIELA barely glances at the photo. 
 
                              MARIELA (whispers) 
                            A mi querido marido... 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 49 

 
ZOE sits down next to MARIELA. 
 
                                        ZOE 
              We ll look after you. I promise you that. 
 
MARIELA s stares, her face pale and traumatised. Something 
inside her has broken forever. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 6. 1715 
 
HARRY working. RUTH enters highly agitated. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    Where s Tom? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        You ve been bursting into my office rather a lot 
                                  recently, Ruth. 
                                        (beat) 
          Tom s with the Colombian girl in a safe house. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        I see. 
 
Starts backing away. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Is it something I can help with perhaps? 
 
RUTH wants to tell TOM first but she s both excited and scared 
of HARRY. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          We ve found out who s been leaking to Tessa. A 
        palm top, it s a highly sophisticated device and 
                                    Zoe saw... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        ZOE! 
 
                        RUTH (extremely nervous now) 
            No, no, it wasn t Zoe, she saw the person at 
          Danny s station about to download stuff but Sam 
                said it was a birthday present and... 
 
                              HARRY (very quietly) 
            Ruth. Take a deep breath. Then in one word 
                    (voice drops to almost a whisper) 
                      tell me the name of the mole. 
 
A beat. 
 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 50 

                                        RUTH 
                                        Sam. 
 
HARRY looks across the Grid. SAM comes into view with a stack 
of files in her arm. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Please tell me you are joking? 
 
RUTH shakes her head. 
 
INT. MI5 SAFE HOUSE - DAY 6. 1800 
 
ZOE, TOM and MARIELA. MARIELA s head is bowed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            I m so sorry, Mariela. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        All this time with him. Sometimes I felt as if my 
          life was just a dream. And then you came and I 
                                thought maybe... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        ...you could have a normal relationship? You can, 
                              Mariela, you will. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                            Not with you though. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                No, not with us. 
                                      (laughs) 
        We don t get much chance at normal relationships 
                                      either. 
 
                          MARIELA (almost bemused) 
                              What do I do now? 
 
ZOE glances at TOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        You re just one of Rafa s victims, Mariela, there 
          are many more. But you can get away from him. 
 
                            TOM (to Zoe, quietly) 
        You need to get back to base. We re hauling Sam in 
                  and you re good cop. I ll stay here. 
 
ZOE hesitates. MARIELA is still very vulnerable. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                              I ll look after her. 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 51 

 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY 6. 1845 
 
SAM is facing ZOE and HARRY. She is wide-eyed. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Where s the palm-top, Sam? 
 
                                  SAM (tearful) 
        I lost it. I was playing Giraffe on the bus and I 
                          must have left it there. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Don t lie to us you traitor. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Please... 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Who gave it to you? Did Tessa give it to you? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Look at me, Sam. 
 
Grabs her face and stares into her eyes. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
          I said look at me! How many people do you think 
          I ve interrogated? Some are harder than others. 
        You think it will be difficult for me to break a 
                        stupid little girl like you? 
 
                                        SAM 
                              You re hurting me. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Just tell us and we can help you. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Now where is the palm top? 
 
INT. MI5 SAFE HOUSE - DAY 6. 1850 
 
TOM and MARIELA. 
 
                                        TOM 
        I ve seen things, Mariela. People who ve died in 
          terrible ways. The men who kill them, men like 
            Rafa, they have something missing. I ve never 
                    understood why they don t have it. 
 




 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 52 

                                      MARIELA 
                          He remembers the swans. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Do you love him? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  He s the only man I ve ever known. 
 
She holds his gaze for a moment. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT'D) 
          I can t do anything for you, you know. He never 
                        talks to me about his work. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We want Vaughan. Go to the opera with him. 
            And...take him back to your house afterwards. 
            You ll wear an undetectable wire within your 
            clothing. Make him talk. Vaughan is a deeply 
              corrupt man and we need to know who else is 
                              involved with him. 
 
MARIELA stares at TOM. Knows exactly what he is asking. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  And how do you want me to do that? 
 
He looks at her. She stares at the ceiling. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 6. 2100 
 
DANNY, ZOE and HARRY. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Where s Sam? 
 
                                        HARRY 
      In the interrogation room. She s holding up bloody 
                  well, the treacherous little bitch. 
 
DANNY winces. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        Anyway, that s not for you to worry about, Danny. 
                  Is Camilo ready for this operation? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        He s ready. Understands about the tracking device, 
                      where to put it and everything. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We re taking a massive gamble with him. If we were 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 53 

        to lose these missiles, our heads will be on the 
                                        block. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Camilo knows what s at stake here. 
 
Suddenly, the fax machine whirrs into life. HARRY watches as 
the fax emerges and tears it off. It reads  Tell Sam that the 
bar is now open.  
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 6. 2120 
 
HARRY and ZOE are sat opposite SAM. 
 
                          HARRY (holding the fax) 
                            The bar is open now. 
 
                  SAM (look of utter exhausted relief) 
                      It s over? That was so cruel. 
 
She jumps up and kisses a confused looking HARRY. 
 
                                  SAM (CONT D) 
        Jane said it would be bad but that was too much. 
      It really hurt when you grabbed my chin like that. 
                  Please may I have a cup of tea now? 
 
ZOE looks at HARRY. Both completely at a loss. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Who s Jane? 
 
                                        SAM 
          Jane from training. The one I ve been reporting 
                to. The one who gave me the palm-top. 
                                      (impatient) 
                                Your boss Jane! 
 
Dumbfounded looks. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 7. 0830 
 
TOM, DANNY and ZOE. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                               Your boss Jane ? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Tessa got to her in training. Persuaded her that 
              she would have to take part in a special 
          intelligence gathering exercise and then put her 
        aside as an asset for a rainy day. Once Tessa got 
        the green light from the Libyans she bought Sam in 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 54 

        who thought our silence on this operation was all 
        part of the game. The bar is open stuff was just 
                              Tessa taunting us. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Sam s not really a traitor if she thought it was 
                                an MI5 exercise. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Harry s angrier with Tessa. But the  your boss 
        Jane  bit was the last straw. He s going straight 
          to the Libyans to cut Tessa out of the loop. No 
        payment for naughty Tessa or the Libyans don t get 
                                        Rafa. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Absolutely no way. The last thing we need now is 
            Tessa and Harry sitting down for a game of 
                                    oneupmanship. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What happens to Sam? 
 
TOM pacing, not thinking at all about SAM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          You re right, it wasn t her fault. Still, she s 
          not exactly the fastest car on the Grid is she? 
 
                                        DANNY 
      No that would be you, Zoe. Anyway, I ve got to go, 
        you stay out there on your own in pole position. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 7. 0200 
 
The team are watching a large screen with a flashing light. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              What s the location? 
 
                      RUTH (studying GPS references) 
        It s a field about seven miles out of Folkestone. 
            That blue light is Camilo so the drugs have 
          arrived. They must be making the exchange. When 
            he s attached the tracker to the missiles we 
                    should see a red light flashing. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Come on, Camilo. You can do this. 
 
A red light suddenly starts to flash on the screen. 
 



 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 55 

                                        HARRY 
                        There it is! We ve got them. 
 
Both lights start to move in different directions. DANNY 
exhales a massive sigh of relief. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        The missiles are on their way to the Chala Cartel 
                armoury. Well done, Danny. Your cleaning 
          assignment is over and we re in the endgame with 
                                    this lot. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 7. 0225 
 
HARRY and TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
      We made a deal with Tessa. We can t go back on it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Feeling sorry for her? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              No. It s too risky. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Risky? On your suggestion I ve just allowed 
            Colombian drugs traffickers to swap a ton of 
          cocaine for Surface to Air Missiles and you talk 
                              to me about risky? 
 
                                        TOM 
          The weapons are being stored on a farm which we 
          have under surveillance. They can t use them or 
          any of their other weapons. Vaughan s the final 
        piece in the jigsaw. Lets not complicate things. 
 
Walks out. HARRY sighs and rubs his eyes. 
 
INT. TESSA S OFFICE - DAY 8. 1300 
 
TESSA talking on telephone. 
 
                                        TESSA 
          A delay? We did agree the payment installments 
        quite clearly. And my expenses claim should have 
        been in my account today. No, no of course I trust 
        you. Sure, no problem whatsoever, next week will 
                              be absolutely fine. 
 
She puts phone down and stares in front of her for a second. 
Then... 
 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 56 

                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
        Harry you bastard, don t you try and double-cross 
                                        me. 
 
She gets a camcorder out of her desk drawer and sets it up in 
front of her. Presses record. 
 
                                  TESSA (CONT D) 
                                  Hello, Harry. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 8. 2300 
 
MARIELA and VAUGHAN enter house. She is carrying a big bunch 
of roses. Both dressed up after night at opera. She goes to 
pour drinks. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                                You enjoyed it? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                      I was sorry for the hunchback. 
 
He whistles La Donna e mobile through his teeth and watches 
her. She turns and smiles flirtatiously at him. Brings him a 
drink, sits down on the sofa next to him so he has a good view 
of her legs. Clinks glass. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT D) 
                                        Salud. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT 8. 2305 
 
TOM and ZOE exchange glances. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Get him talking, Mariela. Fill his glass. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 8. 2320 
 
VAUGHAN s finger is tracing little patterns on MARIELA s leg. 
She glances at it but does not push it off. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Now this is the most agreeable thing about working 
                                    with Rafa. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            Aren t you worried that you might be caught? 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Well, Rafa s away. Oh I see what you mean. There 
          aren t many people who don t have a weakness or 
                            who can t be bought. 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 57 

 
                                      MARIELA 
        You learned that in Colombia? How to buy people? 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Ah well we do things a little differently here of 
          course. But let me tell you something, Mariela. 
          Colombian or British, most people can be bought. 
            And that s just the way the world is, that s 
                                      business. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        So, you re a very rich man. What is your weakness? 
                              Apart from money. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                      You know what my weakness is. 
 
She smiles and removes his hand from her leg but keeps it in 
her hand. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        That s a weakness that could get you into a lot of 
                              trouble with Rafa. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                    Some things are worth the risk. 
 
                                  MARIELA (sighs) 
              Rafa thinks I m stupid. He never tells me 
        anything. I like meeting you, the way you talk to 
                                        me. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Poor Mariela. You were made for better than to be 
                              Rafa s caged bird. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            Rafa laughs at you. He thinks you re just a 
        typical Westerner who takes the money but doesn t 
                  want to know about the dirty work. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Well, what I do is hardly without risk. And I do 
          have powerful friends that make our work a lot 
                                      easier. 
 
                              MARIELA (wide-eyed) 
            Powerful friends. You mean other businessmen? 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                                  In business. 
                                        (beat) 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 58 

                              And in government. 
 
VAUGHAN even closer to MARIELA. She s holding his hands off 
her as if in play. 
 
                              MARIELA (laughing) 
                                      Tell me. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                                  Tell you what? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
              Something exciting. About powerful people. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                          You find power exciting? 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                  Being the messenger can be boring. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                    OK, but what do I get in return? 
 
INT. SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT 8. 2321 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  How far are we going to let this go? 
 
TOM holds up a  wait  hand. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 8. 2321 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                      You want to kiss me don t you? 
 
She leans over and kisses him on the lips. Then she pulls 
away. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                      Are you playing games with me? 
 
She takes his hand plays with his fingers, then holds it 
between hers. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          I want to know things and not tell Rafa that I 
            know. So, when I m talking to him and he s 
          treating me like a little girl, I ll be smiling 
                        inside because of tonight. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                Yes, I can see the appeal of that game. 
 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 59 

His hand returns to her leg. He whispers in her ear. 
 
                                VAUGHAN (CONT D) 
          I could tell you about some of the most powerful 
                                men in Britain. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                          Like the Prime Minister? 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                        Or some of his courtiers. 
 
INT. SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT 8. 2322 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    This is getting dangerous, Tom. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 8. 2322 
 
VAUGHAN is right up close to MARIELA. His hand is trailing up 
her leg, under her dress as he speaks. 
 
                                MARIELA (pouting) 
        Ah, if it s not the Prime Minister I don t want to 
                                        know. 
 
                            VAUGHAN (admonishing) 
        It s all about being part of the loop, the inner 
                                      circle. 
 
MARIELA is not in control of the situation any longer. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
              The loop... I don t really understand... 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
        Power. It s all about power. I have a contact at 
        the highest level of Government who respects the 
          relationship between money and power better than 
                                        most. 
 
He puts his hands on her shoulders and then moves it down to 
her breast. 
 
                                VAUGHAN (CONT D) 
            This man finds power as exciting as you do. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        I can t believe someone in the British Government 
        can be bought just like my President. Who would be 
                                    like this? 
 
He puts his fingers to her lips... 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 60 

 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                                No more talking. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - NIGHT 8. 2324 
 
                                        TOM 
          Someone in Government has known the whole time. 
            They ve been turning a blind eye to Vaughan s 
                          Colombian connections. Who? 
 
ZOE remembers MARIELA, grabs her mobile and dials. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        We have to get him off her. 
                                  (into phone) 
                                      Mariela. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 8. 2324 
 
Split Screen: VAUGHAN all over MARIELA and then by the side of 
the sofa a mobile lights up and rings. MARIELA disentangles 
herself. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            Hello? Where? I m really sorry. Isn t there 
              anybody else? Oh you re already outside. 
 
End of Split Screen. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT D) 
          My girlfriend from the gym s been mugged. They 
        stole her keys and everything. You have to go. She 
        can t see you here. Call me next week. Quickly you 
                                have to go now. 
 
A frustrated VAUGHAN kisses her hand and departs. MARIELA 
stares into space, eyes hard. 
 
INT. TESSA S OFFICE/EXT. STREET - DAY 9. 1000 
 
TESSA speaking on mobile. We intercut with VAUGHAN who takes 
the call while speed walking beside his Bentley in a jogging 
suit. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Ross Vaughan? You don t know who I am but I have 
              information you might find very valuable. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                    Who are you? What s this about? 
 



 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 61 

                                        TESSA 
              There s a little songbird in your ranks. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                I don t know what you re talking about. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Oh I think you do. Lets meet somewhere discreet. 
 
EXT. STREET - DAY 9. 1530 
 
RAFA is standing waiting on a street corner. A familiar 
Bentley crawls slowly alongside him. RAFA gets in. 
 
                                        RAFA 
      So what is this? I thought you didn t like meeting 
                    me. That s what Mariela is for. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                That s what I need to discuss with you. 
                                        (beat) 
        I m afraid that your little bird has been singing 
                                      to MI5. 
 
With these words VAUGHAN knows that he is sentencing MARIELA 
to death. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                  Mariela? She would never betray me. 
 
                                      VAUGHAN 
                      Are you quite sure about that? 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 9. 1600 
 
MARIELA is waiting. Door bursts open and it s RAFA. She stares 
at him, knows at once that he knows. 
 
                                MARIELA (calmly) 
                                I have the ring. 
 
                                        RAFA 
                What ring? What are you talking about? 
 
She gets up and backs away as he advances slowly, menacingly 
towards her. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        You stole it from my father after you killed him. 
        You lied to me, you have made my whole life a lie. 
 




 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 62 

                                        RAFA 
        You betrayed me. After everything I did for you. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                            My parents! My family! 
 
                                        RAFA 
                              I was your family. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                                  You stole me. 
 
                                        RAFA 
          I saved you. You would have been nothing without 
                                        me. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                              And what am I now? 
 
                                        RAFA 
        You destroyed us Mariela. How could you do it? How 
                            could you do it to me? 
                                        (beat) 
        You think you ve avenged your family? But you re 
                                wrong Pajarita. 
 
He reaches into his pocket, takes out a knife and advances 
towards her. 
 
                                  RAFA (CONT D) 
                            I can t let you live. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 9. 1605 
 
HARRY and TOM. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Somebody in government is protecting Vaughan. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        This is a very delicate situation, Tom. He s the 
        Finance Director of one of our largest companies. 
 
                                        TOM 
            He thinks he s immune. Is he immune, Harry? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      We can find out more from him. 
 
There s a knock on the door. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
                                        WHAT? 


 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 63 

 
                                        SAM 
        This has just arrived, Harry, it s marked urgent. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                It s from Tessa! 
 
                                        TOM 
                                She s found out! 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Tom. Calm down. 
 
HARRY puts video on. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - DAY 9. 1607 
 
RAFA has MARIELA pinned against the wall. He brings the knife 
forward. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
            Wait. I want you to know something. When Ross 
        Vaughan was here a few nights ago. There...on that 
                                        sofa. 
 
RAFA looks at the sofa. 
 
                                MARIELA (CONT D) 
        He said I was his weakness. I was angry with you 
        so I let him. He took my clothes off on the sofa 
          and we did it there and then we went into the 
        bedroom and did it again, in the same bed we have 
        shared. It was better than I expected. You said to 
          keep him happy and I think I did. He may be old 
          but he can still do it, in fact...it was better 
          than with you...I was screaming with pleasure. 
 
And she spits in his face. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 9. 1610 
 
TOM and HARRY are watching TESSA s tape. 
 
                                        TESSA 
        Hello, Harry. By the time you see this I will be 
            on a plane to distant shores. Faced with the 
        prospect of you double-crossing me and leaving me 
          with no money, I had to cover the considerable 
          expense in terms of both time and money that I 
          have expended on this project. I thought it was 
          only fair, however, to give you advance warning 
              that Ross Vaughan now knows about Mariela 
                                    Hernandez... 


 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 64 

 
In a moment that seems to last forever, TOM leaps up and makes 
for the door. HARRY remains half-hypnotised by his old 
adversary. 
 
INT. MARIELA HERNANDEZ HOUSE - NIGHT 9. 2145 
 
TOM sitting in middle of living room cradling MARIELA in his 
arms, stroking her forehead. He is holding his jacket tightly 
over her wounds. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
          I m cold. You said you d protect me. He hurt my 
                  hands, my feet. I don t want to die. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You won t die, Mariela. I ve stopped the bleeding 
                                        now. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                You re not lying so well any more, Jack 
                        (her eyes start to flutter) 
        My grandmother took me to town to buy me a dress 
                        for my fifteenth birthday. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What colour was the dress? 
 
                        MARIELA (almost incoherent) 
          Blue. It was a blue dress. My abuela said white 
          but I wanted that blue dress. In Colombia for a 
            girl, the fifteenth birthday is special... 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I didn t know that. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
                              You re a good man. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Am I? 
 
Tears are rolling down his face. 
 
                        MARIELA (fading, breathless) 
          I told him, Jack, I told him that I slept with 
          Vaughan. You know why. Don t stop him now. Mami, 
            Papi, vengan a ver mi vestido de fiesta, mi 
              vestido azul, es tan azul, tan azul como el 
                  cielo...as blue as the sky, Jack... 
 




 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 65 

                                        TOM 
        Mariela, my name s not Jack. My name is Tom. It s 
                          Tom Quinn. My name is... 
 
But MARIELA is dead. TOM gently lifts her body off him and 
stands up. Looks at his hands which are covered in her blood. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
                                  Oh no. Oh no. 
 
He stares at his hands again as we hear the wail of the 
ambulance. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 10. 0800 
 
Whole team assembled. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        It was a shame that Rafa killed Vaughan before we 
                              could question him. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s a shame that someone in the government was 
                          protecting him. Who Harry? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            I can t disclose that. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  So we sweep this under the carpet? 
 
                                  HARRY (hard) 
          Yes. Besides, revelations about one of PETCAL s 
        most senior executives laundering drug money would 
          not be the shot in the arm our jittery economy 
                            needs right now, Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Especially not when that senior executive had just 
          green lit a substantial donation to the party. 
                            Wouldn t look too good. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I ve discussed that with the Home Secretary and 
        the donation won t be accepted. He assures me that 
          this matter is being dealt with at the highest 
                                        level. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Forgive me if that doesn t fill me with 
          confidence. They wanted to pretend this was all 
                          just a Colombian problem. 
 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 66 

                                        HARRY 
        Well it s testimony to a very succesful operation 
              that we found out about it. Our principal 
          objective was to stop the Chala Cartel and we ve 
            done that. They ve lost their leader, their 
                  weapons, and their support networks 
 
                                        TOM 
                        And Mariela lost her life. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          As I say, we achieved our principal objectives. 
            Nevertheless, you re all aware of the situation 
        with Sam. I ve decided to give her a second chance 
        but I m making something very clear now. The next 
        person who breaks the rules, the next person who 
          messes up, the next paperclip that goes astray 
          from this office and you re out. Is that clear? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Physician heal thyself. 
 
A stunned silence. DANNY and ZOE glance at each other 
nervously. 
 
                                    HARRY (icy) 
                              What did you say? 
 
                                        TOM 
        You know what Rafa did, Harry? He cut the tendons 
          in her wrists and feet so she couldn t move and 
        then he stabbed her in such a way that she would 
          bleed very slowly to death. There was nothing I 
                              could do for her. 
 
                                ZOE (anguished) 
                                        Tom! 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I warned you, Harry! 
 
A horrified silence. HARRY and TOM stare at each other 
unflinchingly. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        I understand how distressed you and Zoe are at the 
                                  girl s death. 
 
Another silence. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT'D) 
            OK, everybody, that s it for now. Well done. 
 


 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 67 

They start to file out. HARRY detains TOM with his arm. 
 
                      HARRY (CONT D) (quietly to Tom) 
        I m worried at what I m seeing Tom. Don t let this 
                                      happen. 
 
TOM looks at HARRY, turns and walks out. 
 
INT. CAR. FIELD NEAR DOVER - DAY 10. 1300 
 
RAFA is in the back of the car with two MI5 Operatives beside 
him. Another Operative drives. The car comes to a stand still 
at the point where we started the episode. All three 
operatives get briskly out of the car leaving RAFA alone. The 
central locking system clicks. RAFA is trapped. He realises 
something s wrong and scrabbles with the locks but to no 
avail. 
 
EXT. CAR. FIELD NEAR DOVER - DAY 10. 1301 
 
Two men of Mediterranean appearance (Libyans) approach the 
car. We catch a glimpse of a garrotte in one of their hands, 
its handles flashing in the sunlight. We see the men release 
the central locking system and get in the back. There s a 
moments quiet. Suddenly a foot smashes through the back 
window. RAFA has been killed. The Libyans get out of the car 
and coolly walk away. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - EVENING 10. 1930 
 
Ring on doorbell. TOM opens the door and it s CHRISTINE. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  This had better be good, Tom Quinn. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - EVENING 10. 1935 
 
DANNY and ZOE winding down at their stations. Drinking a 
bottle of vodka. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Are you OK, Zoe? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Have to be. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Zoe are you sure? 
 
ZOE holds up a hand. She s not going to talk about it. DANNY 
pours her another drink. 
 



 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 68 

                                        ZOE 
          So. The lovely Sam. You still on for that date. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Yeah, she may not be the fastest car on the Grid 
                                        but... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        She s got a great figure? I m only kidding, Danny. 
                    If it s there for you go for it. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - EVENING 10. 1945 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I want you and I need you. 
 
A long look between them. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            No more stocktaking? 
 
He takes her in his arms. Over her shoulder he sees... 
 
INT. (FLASHBACK) TOM S FLAT - NIGHT 4. 2145 
 
MARIELA and TOM laughing as she tries to teach him some basic 
dance steps. 
 
                                      MARIELA 
        Move your waist...not so stiff...no you re the man 
      so you have to lead me...I thought you said he was 
                                    good, Katy. 
 
                            TOM (laughing as well) 
                            I am. Compared to her. 
 
INT. TOM S FLAT - EVENING 10. 2015 
 
TOM is clearly still distressed. CHRISTINE knows he s in 
trouble, stroking his head, kissing him. 
 
                                        TOM 
        It s all a game. We re just players. Harry played 
          with Tessa because she wanted his job. Somebody 
        who should never have died...for Harry it was just 
          like somebody had captured his bloody bishop. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - EVENING 10. 2030 
 
HARRY alone with a bottle of scotch. He is sitting watching 
the video which TESSA sent. 
 



 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 9 Page 69 

                                        TESSA 
          Durbeyfield or D Urberville. There s a fine line. 
        You make decisions and somehow the consequences of 
        those decisions just keep unravelling. I m going 
        to have to reinvent myself again, Harry, but God 
            knows we ve all had enough practice at that. 
 
HARRY reaches for Scotch bottle and pours himself a large 
glass. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Goodbye Tess. 
 
And her face dissolves into a fizz of static. 
 
END 






































 69