 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                            Episode Six 

 

                                        By 

 

                  David Wolstencroft 

                                                     Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 1 

EXT. LONDON STREET - DAY 0. 1540 
 
FADE IN: 
 
INT. EMBASSY. SECURITY DESK - NIGHT 1. 2000 
 
A guard watches TV behind a desk. From the TV we hear- 
 
                              GEORGE W. BUSH V.O. 
        The United States has long maintained the option 
          of preemptive actions to counter a sufficient 
        threat to our national security. The greater the 
            threat, the greater is the risk of inaction. 
 
                              TV PRESENTER V.O. 
        The President was speaking in Rio earlier today... 
      We float past the desk, away from the sound of the 
          TV, across the entrance hall, through a pair of 
        open double doors and into the murmur and polite 
                                  laughter of - 
 
INT. EMBASSY. THE RECEPTION HALL - NIGHT 1. 2001 
 
Where a glitzy black tie  do  is in progress. TOM s here, 
flirting with a very chic CHRISTINE as his  guest . HARRY s 
here too, chatting with other guests. ZOE and DANNY are 
another  couple . We finally reach a notice that reads: 
 ITALIAN GOVERNMENT WELCOMES TRADE DELEGATES . 
 
                                        TOM 
          Do you think anyone here s a trade delegate... 
                                        Diane? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          Are you kidding... Steve? 
 
A fizzy atmosphere exists between these two. Both are enjoying 
the event and each other s company. 
 
An Italian host arrives - clearly touring the women in the 
room. He kisses CHRISTINE s hand. They talk for a moment in 
Italian. TOM smiles at the host, who flashes a brief, 
disinterested  hi  and is gone. TOM muses on this snub. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I m just not pretty enough. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        I could have told you that. 
 
Suddenly the mood of the room changes. The atmosphere is 
unsettled. CHRISTINE checks her pager. 
 


 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 2 

                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                              Back in a minute. 
 
One by one, everyone begins discreetly checking their pagers. 
With every glance, the smiles are maintained - but excuses are 
whispered, hands shaken in regret. 
 
TOM checks his own pager and looks for CHRISTINE - but she s 
already disappeared. ZOE and DANNY arrive- 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                What s going on? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  President Bush. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            I thought he was in Rio. 
 
                                        TOM 
            He was. And now he s coming here. Tomorrow 
                                      morning. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Fishing trip? 
 
                                        TOM 
        High level quickie with the PM. Something major s 
        gone down on the OPEC negotiations and they need 
                                to bash heads. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    There s gonna be a rush on taxis. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Don t worry. Harry s outside. 
 
EXT. THE EMBASSY - NIGHT 1. 2010 
 
As HARRY literally bulldozes his way to the front of the taxi 
queue. A FRENCH DELEGATE joins him in his rudeness. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
        You know why Bush is coming, of course. The real 
                                      reason. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Fran ois, what can I say. It s a very special 
                                    relationship. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 




 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 3 

        The meeting with your PM s a feint. He s here to 
                              meet the Libyans. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            I can t believe that. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
            You don t have to believe it. Look at this 
            evening s diplomatic crates from Washington. 
                                      (knowingly) 
                                      We have. 
 
                                        HARRY 
         All diplomatic materials are to remain property 
          of the representative government at all times.  
                            U.N. Resolution 3501. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
         More than half of modern culture depends on what 
                    one shouldn t read.  Oscar Wilde. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We do not conduct espionage against our closest 
                                        ally. 
 
                                FRENCH DELEGATE 
        They pay us to watch you, as if you didn t know. 
        Come on Harry, we re all Europeans now. Whose side 
                              are you on anyway? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Ours. 
 
The DELEGATE gets into a cab. HARRY opens another taxi door, 
as ZOE, DANNY and TOM step inside. As TOM steps up - he sees 
CHRISTINE getting in to the cab next door. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You said a minute. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  Don t believe everything you hear. 
 
EXT. RIO DE JANEIRO. MILITARY RUNWAY(STOCK FOOTAGE). DAY 1 
 
Airforce One roars into the sky. It s daytime there. 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
        Tower this is Air Force One we are wheels up and 
                                        clear. 
 
                              GEORGE W. BUSH V.O. 



 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 4 

          The reasons for our actions will be clear, the 
                      force measured, the cause just. 
 
TITLES 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - NIGHT 1. 2100 
 
ESTABLISHER: Lights blaze tonight. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 2100 
 
There s a large screen on a wall that has  PRESIDENTIAL VISIT  
as a title. Underneath it, a schedule - there are  PHASES , 
one through six, listed in large letters. 
 
For reference, they are: Phase I: Prep; Phase II: Embassy; 
Phase III: Horseguards; Phase IV: Buckingham Palace; Phase V: 
Chequers; Phase VI: Wheels Up 
 
CAPTION: PHASE I: PREP  
 
Our central team are all still in their cocktail outfits - in 
varying states of informality. TOM s mobile rings. He looks at 
the number and rejects it. 
 
MIRANDA (Thames House s psychologist, 40s) sits with HARRY in 
his office. 
 
                          ZOE (re: Harry/Miranda) 
            What would Harry want with the Thames house 
                                      counseller? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Shouting practice? 
 
TOM approaches ZOE and DANNY: 
 
                                        TOM 
        The advance teams land two and a half hours ahead 
                        of Air Force One correct? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Two C-5 Galaxy cargo planes into Brize Norton. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            That s a lot of cargo. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Yeah, well. He s got a lot of stuff, hasn t he. 
          You get a lot of stuff when you re President. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          What are they bringing? 


 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 5 

 
TOM glimpses MIRANDA as she leaves HARRY s office and leaves 
the Grid. ZOE sees her too - a flicker of dread. 
 
                          ZOE (consults schedule) 
              Bulletproof limousine, stand-by limos, decoy 
          limos, private ambulance, sundry Secret Service 
          vehicles, Marine One plus one other helicopter, 
                  and something called a blue goose. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Presidential podium. So presumably he s planning 
          to transfer to the Embassy by Marine One after 
          touching down at Brize Norton. Any clue on who s 
                                    meeting him? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Nope. But I do know what happens later. Coffee 
            with the US Ambassador, spot of sightseeing, 
          goodwill lunch with the Queen, then to Chequers 
        for talks, before he s back on the runway. Elapsed 
                              time, fifteen hours. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Bit bloody last minute. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Maybe he booked it on the internet. 
 
TOM smiles, heads back to his desk - looking up to see 
CHRISTINE DALE and a bunch of suits (US Embassy Staffers) 
approaching through the pods. TOM s mobile rings again. He 
checks and rejects again - noticed by DANNY. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 1. 2156 
 
RUTH makes a call - HARRY picks up. Whispered convo: 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          They re sending it here. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        You said tell Customs to open a crate. So I did. 
          And now they ve told me they ve had a look and 
          there s a problem and they re sending it here. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              A Libyan problem-? 
 



 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 6 

                                        RUTH 
                      No, another kind of problem- 
 
TOM walks in - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Ready for you. 
 
HARRY hangs up. A look between RUTH and HARRY. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM. NIGHT 1 - 2200 
 
A huge deal. CHRISTINE is here in power mode, flanked by 
senior US Embassy Staffers, all men with huge necks and sleek 
black laptops. Our team have A4 pads and pencils. 
 
We get the feeling that CHRISTINE is making a point by her 
powerness, delineating her  office  self from the more good-
humoured person we met in the Embassy. TOM, DANNY, ZOE, HARRY, 
RUTH, MALCOLM - all here too. US Embassy Staffers start 
handing out glossy folders. It s like a conference. The 
biggest, scariest, child-eating staffer is called TROY. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United 
          States arrives in this country in approximately 
            seven hours, and he ll be here until 2000hrs 
          tomorrow. We ve outlined our security needs on a 
        minute by minute basis in the folder resources in 
                                  front of you. 
 
TOM catches HARRY s eye - whose meeting is this again? 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          Clearly FLOTUS and VPOTUS will not be present on 
                                    this visit. 
 
DANNY looks to ZOE - what? She starts writing subtly. TOM s 
mobile goes off - loudly - he ends the call. He can t turn the 
phone off as it s too important. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        POTUS himself requested the diversionary trip at 
          1800 GMT yesterday. First you heard of it was 
        probably first we heard of it. So let s make this 
                        as pleasurable as possible. 
 
A look at TOM. ZOE pushes a note across to DANNY, subtly. The 
note says:  FLOTUS=FIRST LADY U.S.A.  
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          A command post has been established at Grosvenor 
          Square with full communications facilities. The 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 7 

            POTUS advance team will, in conjunction with 
          members of the White House Protective Research 
          Section, survey each site to be visited by the 
          President. From these surveys, the members of the 
        team will determine manpower, equipment, medical 
        and evacuation requirements for all eventualities. 
 
TOM s mobile again - a text message. He silences it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    We d actually prefer to do that- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Your assistance in all these matters is of course 
        a vital part of our entire security operation and 
                we thank you for coming this evening. 
 
A look between TOM and HARRY.  Thank you for coming?  
 
                            TROY (fucking serious) 
        Bagpipe and the PRS will of course initiate a full 
          complement of POTUS SA1s on CP from the Blacktop 
        Unit at Grosvenor by the time we get a wheels down 
                  from Cowpuncher at the Basecamp LZ. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            ...In English please. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        A full U.S. Secret Service team will be there to 
            meet the President at Brize Norton once the 
            President touches down. We d appreciate close 
          protection teams from MI5 for perimeter security 
                      for the duration of the visit. 
 
TOM s mobile buzzes across the table. He shoves it in his 
pocket. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    But not close to the President. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Well, no. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Because that s our job. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It s also our job. 
 


 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 8 

                                      CHRISTINE 
                              Not in this case. 
 
                                        TOM 
        MI5 oversees the protection of the PM. The Queen. 
                              Visiting dignitaries. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Not this one. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Diplomatic protocol states quite clearly that the 
            host Government provides 95 per cent of the 
                    protection on Presidential visits- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Not this President. Not this visit. Vaclev Havel 
        let us do it our way in Prague and we re doing it 
          our way now. That means a complete adherence to 
          U.S. Secret Service close protection protocol. 
            Every rumour is to be treated as fact until 
        neutralised. Every target is a potential assassin 
          until dealt with. We d like paranoia to be the 
        norm here until our Commander in Chief is safely 
          back in the skies. I m sure you can understand 
        that in the current climate. After he s gone, any 
        residual distrust of others will of course be your 
                                  own problem. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  How kind of you to point that out. 
 
Outside, a small crate can be seen being delivered into the 
middle of the grid. It s in full view of a lot of people 
including, were she to turn a teensy bit to her right, 
CHRISTINE DALE. 
 
This is not a good thing, because as HARRY eyes the crate 
subtly, he sees what we can see - on the side of the crate, 
some words and the US Diplomatic Seal. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 2202 
 
SAM is talking to the man with the crate. His name is TREVOR. 
 
                                        TREVOR 
          Customs Liaison at Heathrow said to bring it up 
                                        here. 
 
                                        SAM 
                      I don t know anything about it. 
 
                                        TREVOR 


 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 9 

              They re diplomatic crates, right? They come 
              through every day from Washington to the US 
        Embassy. So why we were told to open this one, God 
                                    only knows. 
 
SAM sees the side of the crate. Then sees CHRISTINE inside the 
meeting room. And gets it. A silent  oh fuck . 
 
She positions herself in front of the crate just as CHRISTINE 
turns round in her chair briefly. She s not focused on what s 
happening outside so it s a near miss - 
 
                                        SAM 
            This is going bye bye right now. Follow me. 
 
TREVOR lifts the crate as SAM shadows it from the meeting room 
window. ZOE and DANNY exit the meeting room. DANNY heads 
towards SAM. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Sam, Tom wants us to start police briefings as 
                              soon as - wait wait. 
                                  (sees crate) 
                              Whoa. Isn t that-? 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Yep. So shut up and help. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    No problem. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Sorry about the shut up. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    No problem. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 1. 2215 
 
A large projection of faces - men and women - flit by. 
Surveillance shots, mug shots, passport shots ... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Every Presidential visit, domestic or foreign, has 
            since the Kennedy assassination involved the 
          assembly of what we call the Trip File. In this 
              file is every contact, every threat, every 
          possible target and concern to the safety of the 
          President in every geographical area he will be 
        passing through. The last official POTUS visit to 
          the UK was nearly two years ago. We ve done our 
              best to keep up to speed on all of these 
            individuals, but obviously we re going to need 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 10 

              access to all of your files to confirm our 
              information is up to date and watertight. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well, why don t you give us your information and 
                          we ll cross reference it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                We ll do it ourselves if that s okay. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So you want unsupervised access to the Registry 
                                        Files. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        Yes. 
 
A look between TOM and HARRY- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          Or perhaps you d prefer the President to get a 
                  bullet in the brain on your watch - 
 
TOM fumes silently at this. Trouble brewing, folks. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID. ZOE S DESK - NIGHT 1. 2228 
 
MIRANDA talks to ZOE. MIRANDA has an ingratiating manner that 
is both very affected and incredibly annoying. Her attempts to 
be reasonable only exacerbate this. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
          I understand how you feel, Zoe, I really do, but 
        these interviews are designed for you. They re for 
                you to blow off steam, to contribute - 
 
                                        ZOE 
               -constructive criticism of our workflow and 
          office environment.  Yes, I read the memo. But 
            we re a little busy right now? Some American 
          bloke s arriving in the country? Apparently lots 
                        of people want to kill him? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
            Having the sessions under the stress of live 
          operations facilitates greater honesty. And don t 
        worry about time, Zoe, I m here for you - day or 
                                        night. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Miranda- 
 
                                      MIRANDA 


 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 11 

        You or Danny, in the reading room. Please. Soon as 
                      you can. Be nice to catch up. 
 
DANNY arrives, passes the departing MIRANDA. ZOE sees his face 
(he s just seen the crate). 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  What s wrong? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Tell you later. 
                                  (re: Miranda) 
                        It s really happening then? 
 
ZOE nods. Not good news. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
          She knows we all hide from her the rest of the 
                                  year, right? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Right. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            So why does she do it? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Personnel send her out every year in her own 
          little Psychological sniper unit to pick us off 
        one by one. It s guerilla warfare. I don t even go 
      to the fifth floor any more in case someone thinks 
                            I m going to see her. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Like anyone s going to voluntarily knock on the 
          door of the MI5 Staff Psychologist and say  I 
                                can t hack it.  
 
ZOE retrieves a coin from her pocket. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Barry Mitchell did. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Who s Barry Mitchell? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Exactly. 
                                        (beat) 
                          Okay, here we go - call - 
 
She s about to toss the coin when- 
 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 12 

                                        DANNY 
                                        Wait. 
 
He grabs the coin. Examines both sides. Hands it back. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                Very trusting. Okay, I ll have heads. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                I wanted heads- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              So I ll be tails. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Go. Go. 
 
ZOE tosses the coin. Shows DANNY. ZOE smiles. DANNY thumps the 
desk. He s lost. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
                                    I knew it. 
 
INT. THE GRID. OUTSIDE MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 1. 2300 
 
TOM opens the door and the Americans (less CHRISTINE) file 
out, making for the Pods. All very severe. Our team pass out 
too - it s been a hot and heavy meeting. 
 
HARRY shoots TOM a glance - my office? TOM nods. CHRISTINE 
passes out in front of TOM. A look to her loitering staffers- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  I ll see you downstairs in a minute. 
 
TOM turns his mobile back on. It rings immediately. CHRISTINE 
eyes him as he turns it off again. He tries to clear the air- 
 
                                        TOM 
          One of your minutes? He ll be there all night. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (thinks) 
                                Very funny Tom. 
 
                                        TOM 
              That s me. And tactful, too, you ll find. 
 
The implication here is that she is not. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Our two countries have a long tradition of working 
            together and I see no reason why we can t be 



 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 13 

        standard bearers for that in the next twenty four 
                                        hours. 
 
                                        TOM 
              I read the CIA world factbook, Christine. 
        Britain s entry. Written by you.  Slightly smaller 
        than Oregon.  I think that was it. That s what we 
              are to you. Slightly smaller than Oregon. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
          Don t think you can just order us around, okay? 
                    Don t believe that for a second. 
 
CHRISTINE stunned- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                              He s our President. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It s our country. 
 
TOM makes for HARRY s office as CHRISTINE goes to the Pods. 
RUTH observes from her corner. Quietly to herself as she 
stacks some papers- 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  I spy a crush. 
 
The papers slide off the pile - she swears silently. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 1. 2330 
 
DANNY sits in front of MIRANDA. She has a clipboard. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                Just be as open and candid as you like. 
 
Silence. DANNY nods. 
 
                                MIRANDA (cont d) 
        Anything at all. Anything or anyone you feel needs 
              scrutiny. Just let rip. This is your time. 
 
                                  DANNY (thinks) 
                          It s all good, actually. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                                        Good? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Yep. Everything s great. Fantastic. 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 14 

 
                                      MIRANDA 
          Perhaps if I asked you a few specific questions- 
                              (Danny shrugs-okay) 
        What do you think of the Service s public access 
                              line for example? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  What s that? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
          The freephone number assigned so members of the 
          public can call in with tipoffs about terrorist 
                                      threats. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Oh, that. We call it the weirdo line. 
 
MIRANDA s eyebrow raises slightly. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                                        I see. 
 
And she marks something down on her form. And then something 
else. A paragraph is forming, she keeps writing, writing, 
writing and DANNY s wondering what the bloody hell she s got 
to say... DANNY sweats, strains to have a look - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                What I mean is- 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 0000 
 
TOM subtly dials a number on the phone, a little wary. It 
starts to ring just as HARRY catches his eye - beckoning. 
TOM hangs up. Approaches - 
 
                                        TOM 
              You re not going to give her access to the 
                  Registry? Ministerial vetting files? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        It s a show of trust on our side. But I m moving 
          the juicy stuff out of there until this is all 
            over. Remember Tom, this visit has become a 
        symbol. The PM s keen as mustard that we look like 
                  equal partners with the Americans. 
 
                                        TOM 
          So Christine gets the files, we get some highly 
              visible close protection duty. No symbolic 
                          victories for either side. 
 


 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 15 

                        HARRY (nods, looks at watch) 
            We have a small window of time while the CIA 
          finalise their prep. As we re all going to be in 
        the office for the duration I m tasking someone to 
          collect changes of clothes - black tie seems a 
                              little too formal... 
 
TOM thinks for a second. Moving to the door- 
 
                                        TOM 
                    I ll go myself, if that s okay. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 1. 0030 
 
MIRANDA and DANNY (now sweating a lot). MIRANDA smiles. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
          What about Zoe? Do you have any comments about 
                                working with her? 
 
DANNY looks at her - what is this meant to achieve? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                How d you mean? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                It can mean what you like it to mean. 
 
As DANNY struggles with his morals we cut to: 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - NIGHT 1. 0030 
 
UNKNOWN POV: TOM on the pavement - hailing a cab - the unknown 
POV hinting that he s being watched. But by whom...? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - NIGHT 1. 0033 
 
SAM sits next to the crate. She s looking at it as if it 
contains smallpox. Pulling back we find MALCOLM with another 
MI5 officer, also staring at it. And a fourth person, TREVOR. 
 
Silence - the kind of heavy silence just after someone s said 
something truly awful. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                Say that again. 
 
                                        TREVOR 
                                We opened it up. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    Got that. 
 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 16 

                                        TREVOR 
                    And started looking through it. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                Still with you. 
 
                                        TREVOR 
                    And we d just got started, when- 
 
                                        SAM 
                    Someone spilled their tea into it. 
 
That silence again. 
 
                                        TREVOR 
                              That ... is correct. 
 
                                        SAM 
        Yeah. That was the bit I had some problems with. 
 
They all look to the crate... and the look on SAM s face says 
it all. This is not funny. This is fucking serious. 
 
INT. TAXI - NIGHT 1. 0045 
 
TOM dials a number as the black cab takes him through the 
streets of London. Shuts off the driver mic. 
 
                                VICKY (ON PHONE) 
                                Ah ha. Finally- 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Vicky. What the hell s going on? 
 
EXT. HOSPITAL. AMBULANCE BAY - NIGHT 1. 0045 
 
VICKY is on her mobile. Junior doctors come and go behind her. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                            I ve been calling you. 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                        TOM 
                              About fifty times. 
 
                                        VICKY 
        Maybe if you called me back once or twice I might 
                      not have to ring you so much. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              This has to stop. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 17 

                                        VICKY 
                  You ve already made that very clear. 
 
                                        TOM 
          The calling, Vicky. It has to stop right now. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            So clinical, Tom. You d make a good surgeon, 
                                      y know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Vicky, I m warning you- 
 
                                        VICKY 
        Stop trying to sound angry, Tom. You re not angry. 
            You re guilty. You re ashamed at how you ve 
          treated me, and who - sorry, machine man, that 
            should be WHAT - WHAT you ve become. Tom the 
                  Terminator. Tom the See Through Spook. 
 
                                        TOM 
                Don t call me again, okay? Just don t. 
                                  (she s silent) 
                                        Vicky? 
 
A chuckle. 
 
                                        VICKY 
          I can t wait to see your face when you find out. 
 
TOM - chilled to the very core - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Find out what? 
 
Vicky hangs up. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
                                Find OUT WHAT?! 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - NIGHT 1. 0047 
 
TREVOR opens up the crate. Everyone s nervous, like it s the 
Holy Grail being opened up - they are looking at Forbidden 
Material and they re going to suffer. TREVOR pulls out an 
important-looking file. 
 
It s soaked in tea. Removing the papers from the file, we find 
the tea has permeated throughout the crate. 
 
                                        SAM 
            How much bloody tea did you spill in here? 
 


 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 18 

                                        TREVOR 
                    It was an Arsenal Centenary mug. 
                                  (Sam stares) 
                        So, you know. Quite a lot. 
 
                                        SAM 
                            It wasn t you, was it? 
 
                                        TREVOR 
                              No, I drink coffee. 
                                      (looking) 
                          I think it was Earl Grey- 
 
                                        SAM 
                  I don t care what bloody KIND it was- 
 
That silence again. MALCOLM examines the document. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          They can bleach that out. It s either that or 
              replicate the contents of the entire crate. 
 
                                        SAM 
              Before the Americans notice it s missing. 
 
                                        TREVOR 
        We ve kept a few other crates back so we can say 
                      there s been a batch delayed... 
 
                                        SAM 
          Fine. Just keep tea away from all of them. AND 
        coffee AND sodding Ribena while you re at it. How 
            long have we got til the Americans realise? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        All depends. With the President coming we might be 
        able to get away with eighteen hours. Maybe less. 
                              (a look from Sam) 
                                    Maybe more. 
 
TREVOR nods apologetically and leaves. SAM, MALCOLM, all turn 
back to the crate. Slowly, they look - INSIDE THE CRATE - to 
find about fifty U.S. Government files and folders, all with 
U.S. Seals, official-looking paraphernalia. All covered, in 
varying quantities, with strongly-brewed tea. 
 
                                MALCOLM (cont d) 
          Clean and meadow fresh by morning. You have my 
                                        word. 
 
MALCOLM smiles. But SAM is worried. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 0100 


 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 19 

 
ZOE greets DANNY as he returns to his desk. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                So how was it? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  How was what? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Your session with Inspector Freud. 
 
She means MIRANDA. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    Oh, fine. 
 
Zoe s waiting for further details. They re not coming. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    That s it? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  You want more? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Well, I don t know, was it good, bad, indifferent? 
          Friendly? Antagonistic? Deeply annoying? Or just 
                          traditionally irritating? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Just ... fine. 
 
ZOE eyes him warily. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
          Do you want me to write it all down for you? In 
                                      detail? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      No, no - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Cos, you know, I will. If you want. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        No, no. Really. It s fine. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Exactly. 
 
CLOSE ON: STATUS SCREEN 
 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 20 

We see the callsign  AF1 , a dot on a map of the world, making 
good progress across the Atlantic. 
 
EXT. TOM S HOUSE - NIGHT 1. 0101 
 
A strange MAN can be seen lurking in the bushes, dialling a 
number on his mobile. 
 
TOM gets out of the cab, tells it to wait. Walks through the 
shadows towards his front door. Instantly alert, he takes out 
his keys. Senses something s wrong. About to unlock his door 
when- 
 
The strange MAN steps out of the darkness about ten feet 
behind him. Just off the street. TOM senses him, turns. The 
MAN is seedy-looking. 50s, in a suit that s just a bit too 
grubby. 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                                      Finally. 
 
TOM eyes him silently. Emergency mode equals calm- 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I m sorry, I don t know you. 
 
                                SEEDY MAN (duh) 
          Obviously. But look, time is money and all that. 
                      Are you working or what, Tom? 
 
                                  TOM ( Tom ??) 
                              I m dialling 999 - 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
        Tom Quinn. It s definitely you, so don t try and 
                                      deny it. 
 
He holds up a flyer. It s instantly recognisable as one of 
those sex ads. Like a phonebox card, but bigger. TOM isn t 
going to take it. But his eyes are drawn to it. 
 
In particular, to the picture - 
 
With a trembling hand, he holds it up to the light. And horror 
on his face - 
 
INSERT: THE FLYER 
 
It s a picture of TOM. In big letters,  TOM QUINN - On Her 
Majesty s Sexy Service. A bona fide SPOOK offering all the 
usual undercover services...  
 
Below the picture, and much, much more scary: 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 21 

 
TOM s address. TOM s phone numbers. 
 
BACK TO SCENE 
 
As TOM takes this in. SEEDY MAN steps forward. 
 
                              SEEDY MAN (cont d) 
                            So? Are you working? 
 
TOM grabs the MAN by the lapel and pushes him roughly into the 
bushes - 
 
                              SEEDY MAN (cont d) 
                      Now we re getting somewhere- 
 
But his comment is stopped by TOM s forearm constricting his 
windpipe. Pain. TOM is murderously quiet- 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Where did you find this? 
 
He releases the MAN s neck enough for a breath- 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                              You re hurting me- 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Where-did-you-find-this? 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
                                  Usual place- 
                                        (pain) 
          In a bloody phonebox, mate! Where d you think? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    A phonebox...? 
 
                                      SEEDY MAN 
        Outside The Fire Island Club. But there s a bunch 
      in the loos too. Saturation advertising if you ask 
              me. You re wallpapered around that place. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Get away from me - go! 
 
The SEEDY MAN runs - confused, angry. TOM s reeling now. Can t 
bear to look at that flyer again. But he must. Grabs his keys, 
hands shaking - fuck fuck fuck fuck - 
 
His mobile rings again. He snatches at the phone. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 22 

                                        What? 
 
                              MALE VOICE (V.O.) 
                                Hello gorgeous - 
 
TOM hangs up. It rings again. TOM escapes into his house- 
 
INT. TOM S HOUSE - NIGHT 1. 0105 
 
Where his home phone is ringing off the hook. He answers, 
hangs up, all in one movement. Leaves it off the hook. 
Certainty in his eyes. He knows. He dials a number on his 
mobile. We hear him get VICKY s answerphone. 
 
He hangs up. His mobile rings again as he climbs the stairs- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        What? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Tom? Where are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Zoe-sorry-I ll be back in two seconds. And listen 
                  I need you to do something for me- 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - NIGHT 1. 0120 
 
Night-time. London sleeps. But not here. 
 
INSERT: SCREEN 
 
Air Force One edging ever closer... we hear Comms chatters: 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
            Tower this is Air Force One, we re still on 
                          schedule for Brize Norton. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 0140 
 
CLOSE ON TOM as he enters through the Pods. He s in a suit and 
tie - smart. Everyone s smart, changed. ZOE hands him a new 
cell, new pager-he s a little distracted. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          All numbers changed including your home phone. 
                We ve got a guy outside the house too. 
                              (Tom nods in thanks) 
                                What s going on? 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Routine security checkup. 
 


 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 23 

                                        ZOE 
                            At one in the morning? 
 
CHRISTINE approaches- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                No-one s letting us near the files, Tom- 
 
                                        TOM 
          You get open access to the Registry, we get a 
            small close protection presence. Six officers 
          working alongside U.S. Secret Service personnel. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  Four at most. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Five. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Fine. But they d better wear Secret Service issue 
        lapel pins or there s a good chance they re going 
                                  to get shot. 
 
A Staffer approaches CHRISTINE, whispers in her ear - she 
walks off in the direction of the meeting room. 
 
TOM walks over to his locker - under scrutiny. Shoots a glance 
to SAM. She moves over, trying to be casual - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                You got my page? 
 
                                    SAM (nods) 
                              I ll try my best. 
 
ZOE arrives- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Meeting room. 
 
TOM catches HARRY staring - what s going on? TOM hurries 
towards the Meeting Room... 
 
INT. COMPUTER GEEKS  ROOMS - NIGHT 1. 0145 
 
Shots of computer geeks e-mailing each other. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 1. 0149 
 
CHRISTINE and TROY sit sternly. TOM, HARRY, ZOE, DANNY, RUTH 
are also here. 
 


 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 24 

                                        HARRY 
          Someone in Herefordshire has intercepted the Air 
                Force One callsign from Brize Norton. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                        How? 
 
                                        TOM 
        These blokes are hobbyists, they spend their lives 
            searching known military frequencies. They got 
                                        lucky. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          So some guy with a parka and a HAM radio knows 
                that Cowpuncher s in the air, so what? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Well what it does is create a ripple effect. 
            Little spoddy man talks to his little spoddy 
          friends who post things on the world wide web. 
        Where everyone can see it. GCHQ s done a scan of 
        UK messageboards. And they ve found seven verbal 
        threats to the safety of the President in the last 
                            thirty minutes alone. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        What are they threatening? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          They re mostly general, wishing harm and so on. 
          But a few are detailed conversations. And the 
          problematic thing is that they all presuppose the 
                  President s schedule rather too well. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      You re saying there s a leak? 
 
                                        TOM 
          No but they ll all know he s landing at Brize 
        Norton - which means there s a flying visit on the 
          cards - which will mean he s getting to London 
        somehow - and presume it ll be a transfer to your 
                            Embassy in Marine One. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    All seems pretty innocent to me- 
 
                              HARRY (smoothing) 
          But we OF COURSE wanted to bring them to your 
                      attention as soon as possible. 
 




 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 25 

ZOE shoots TOM a guilty look. CHRISTINE looks to TROY who is 
deep in serious thought. 
 
                              TROY (conferring) 
                          We should change the LZ. 
 
NB obviously this is pronounced  el zee . 
 
                              RUTH (overhearing) 
                                    The what? 
 
                                        TROY 
                              The Landing Zone. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        We don t need to change the LZ, Troy, we need to 
                                change the route. 
 
                                  TROY (nodding) 
            Maybe bounce Nighthawk to Bamboo, groundside. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          What s the Landing Zone? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      The helipad at the US Embassy. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                  Well why doesn t he just SAY THAT? 
 
The phone rings. DANNY picks up - it s for RUTH. She answers 
it curtly, listens - 
 
                        HARRY (deflecting tension) 
                              More coffee anyone? 
 
- but RUTH s going red. Something s up? 
 
                              RUTH (from phone) 
                                      Tea...? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Or tea? Where s Sam? 
 
TOM s face betrays his nerves as RUTH hangs up- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    No idea... 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        It s alright, I ll get her- 
 



 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 26 

RUTH pushes back her chair - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            We re going to have to think about this for a 
                                      minute. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Christine, the Landing Zone s totally secure, 
                  we ve moved a lot of units up there- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
      In private, if you don t mind. The President lands 
            in three hours. In the meantime I need full 
            background checks on motorcade police teams, 
        Palace workers -including butlers- and the serving 
                              staff at Chequers. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            They re already done. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Again, please. We all need to be at the Palace by 
                        three for the walkthrough. 
 
TOM looks at his watch. 
 
EXT. SOHO/PHONEBOX - NIGHT 1. 0157 
 
SAM walks through the street crowds. Finds a phone box. 
Enters. A little shocked when she sees TOM s flyer. 
 
INT. SOHO CLUB. GENTS - NIGHT 1. 0200 
 
SAM reaches over a man at the urinals to grab TOM s flyer, 
that s stuck to the wall. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 1. 0200 
 
ZOE sits with MIRANDA. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
        ..as open and candid as you like. Don t hold back. 
                  We ve had useful criticisms already. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Really? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
          Absolutely. And not just about procedure. You can 
            blow off about your colleagues if you like. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Colleagues? 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 27 

 
                                      MIRANDA 
                Danny, for example. I mean he was ... 
            exceptionally candid about you. For example. 
 
It s clear what the implication is here. And it s not very 
nice at all. Off ZOE s reaction - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - NIGHT 1. 0201 
 
RUTH arrives to see MALCOLM scanning every single document 
into a large computer. RUTH s face falls as she realises the 
magnitude of what s happened - examining the stains... 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Tea..? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                        Tea. 
 
Ruth watches him for a moment. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Bad? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                        Bad. 
 
INSERT: SCREEN 
 
The dot marked  AF1  moving slowly over the Bay of Biscay. 
 
EXT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE - NIGHT 1. 0300 
 
Establisher shot of the Palace. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
        Christine. Since news of this visit leaked we have 
                                      received... 
 
INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE. CORRIDORS - NIGHT 1. 0300 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE walk through the double doors, into the 
corridor. They talk as they walk past various rooms. CHRISTINE 
is sipping a take-out coffee. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Two threats to the water supply of Central London 
          and one to the Buckinghamshire reservoir that 
              supplies Chequers; five warnings of civil 
                disobedience along the motorcade routes; 
          unofficial calls to protest from two Palestinian 
        groups, three anti-death penalty campaigners, and 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 28 

                    four anti-globalisation bodies. 
                                  (soldiering on) 
          Christine, that to me is a little more clear and 
                present than some HAM RADIO OPERATORS. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        It s not the operators I m worried about, it s the 
        people having conversations about my President s 
                            immediate travel plans. 
 
                                        TOM 
        You think someone is going to read up on all this 
        and take a potshot at every Sikorsky Sea King that 
                          flies over Cricklewood? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Right now, a lunatic with flight plan details is a 
        much greater threat to my Commander in Chief than 
              a protest in Hyde Park. And someone with a 
          microlight, a glider, a bottle rocket, they could 
          get that thing right into the path of MX1 and 
              create a whole lot of hell over North West 
                                      London... 
 
They walk into the Reception room. 
 
INT. BUCKINGHAM PALACE. RECEPTION ROOM - NIGHT 1. 0300 
 
Chairs are being set out, carpets unrolled. Two larger chairs, 
with a small table between them, sit like a throne dais at the 
far end of the room. 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE walk through as various U.S. Secret Service 
and MI5 personnel (DANNY and ZOE included) come to and fro 
with ad lib requests and others. Palace workers and MI5 staff 
eye CHRISTINE s coffee rather warily - this is a bit of a 
liberty! 
 
                          CHRISTINE (beckoning Troy) 
                  Do you want this? I can t finish it. 
 
TROY takes the coffee - unsure what to do. Leaves. 
 
TOM has stopped and is just watching her now. On closer 
inspection we see now the fear behind the front - softly, 
privately: 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Why are you being like this? 
 
CHRISTINE makes an attempt to shrug this off- 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 29 

        You ve been going for the jugular ever since this 
                              thing kicked off. 
 
                        CHRISTINE (relenting-softly) 
        Tom. It s my first big visit in charge. Everything 
        I do is being put under the microscope. These guys 
        are just waiting for me to screw up. I m not going 
                        to give them that pleasure. 
 
Actually, it s true. Everyone is both looking to - and at -  
CHRISTINE. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          So it would really help if you could at least 
          appear to be working with me instead of against 
                                me. Whaddya say? 
 
TOM softens. Nods - no problem. Loudly: 
 
                                        TOM 
                I think that sounds an excellent idea. 
 
CHRISTINE smiles, sees this is a favour to her. It is also 
overheard by TROY as he - 
 
                            TROY (pointing at Zoe) 
                    Can we get Kittyhawk over here? 
 
MI5 operatives at a loss- 
 
                            CHRISTINE (to the room) 
        Once again, Kittyhawk is U.S. Secret Service code 
          for Queen Elizabeth II. Please pay attention. 
 
                                DANNY (quietly) 
                      What s wrong with  The Queen ? 
 
CHRISTINE turns back to TOM - who has been trying to reach 
someone (SAM) on his mobile - no joy - he ends the call as: 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        So Tom - are we dealing with this route change or 
                                        not? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What do you need? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        I need a road transfer to Halton, I need a dummy 
          chopper in the air from Brize Norton, I need the 
            President on Marine One at Halton enroute to 
          Blacktop on schedule and free from harm. Can you 



 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 30 

                        help with any of that Tom? 
 
The proximity between these two is heated... It s also, 
clearly, quite sexy. A breathless pause. Everyone s looking-
subtly. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      We ll help in any way we can. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Thank you. 
                                    (a pause) 
                              Okay. Who s Queen? 
 
ZOE steps forward - a little reluctant. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                                    And Prez? 
 
DANNY puts his hand up. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Let s get this over with. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You want this done quickly or you want this done 
                                        right? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          I want this done quickly. 
 
DANNY and ZOE walk over towards the two chairs. Preparations 
continue in the b.g. as they walk: 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          How was your interview? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                Not as good as yours, from what I hear. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Oh-she told you then? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  So it s true? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Well she sort of surprised me with the question 
                      and it just sort of came out. 
 
They sit in the chairs. ZOE s face betrays her outrage. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 31 

                          What, you want me to lie? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  Well, course not Danny, God forbid. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        She asked me a question, I answered it honestly, 
                                    that s all- 
 
                                ZOE (bristling) 
                      Yeah well and I did the same. 
 
                            DANNY (bristling back) 
                        Yeah well there you go then. 
 
A spirit of total mistrust now, between them. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Okay-twelve twenty one, motorcade arrives at away 
                    point one... Twelve twenty five- 
 
                            TOM (helping-quietly) 
        The Queen usually meets guests in the courtyard- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    So what re they doing over there? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            You just put us here- 
 
                        CHRISTINE (to Danny and Zoe) 
                    OK, George, outside-and you, QE2! 
 
TOM tries not to laugh. His phone rings. Everyone looks. He 
sees the caller-answers- 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yep. 
 
                                    SAM (V.O) 
                  Got all I could. Shredded and burnt. 
 
He ends the call. CHRISTINE eyes him sceptically. 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE. ESTABLISHING - DAY 2. 0459 
 
Sun has risen. Somewhere, a plane flies. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 2. 0500 
 
A bit like a cross between the BBC Media Monitor department 
and a call centre. TVs and translators. Surveillance feeds and 



 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 32 

telephone headsets. An OPERATOR is consulting his screen - we 
hear: 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
          Tower this is Air Force One, we are wheels down 
                                    and clear. 
 
                              TOWER VOICE (V.O.) 
            Roger Air Force One. Welcome to the United 
                                      Kingdom. 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
          Cowpuncher is wheels down, repeat Cowpuncher is 
                                  wheels down. 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
                            Standby ground teams. 
 
CAPTION:  PHASE II: EMBASSY  
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                          No. No. Absolutely NOT. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0501 
 
CHRISTINE and TROY pursue TOM towards HARRY s office - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    I don t see why this is a problem. 
 
                                        TOM 
            We gave you a rundown of police vetting. You 
          cannot demand additional vetting checks against 
                        individual police officers. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Why not? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Because you can t. 
 
                                        TROY 
            We re just concerned about his background. 
 
He hands over a sheet of paper. TOM reads it, aghast. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  He s a Muslim. 
 
Staffer shrugs. A look from TOM. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        It s not anything we used to worry about of course 


 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 33 

        but we now have a policy of stringent background 
            checks on everyone within twenty yards of the 
                                      President. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Not this one. You start checking up on Muslim 
            police officers, you risk alienating a lot of 
                                      people. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        If it s Federal Immigration Policy, which it is, 
              then it s Secret Service vetting policy. 
                                        (beat) 
                                  Which it is. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 2. 0722 
 
We see one TV is on, where British news shows Air Force One 
taxi to a halt on a runway. 
 
                                  NEWSREADER V.O. 
        The President has come to London on a brief visit 
                that many believe is a rallying call to 
              consolidate international opinion on U.S. 
                          preemptive strike policy- 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 0806 
 
On the big screen, six photos with names. One of the names is 
Dmitri Bubka. Our team are here, less the Americans (TOM, ZOE, 
DANNY and HARRY) - croissants and coffee on the table. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Aside from individual quests for glory from 
          Richard Reid shoebomber types, our information 
            tells us the CIA trip list has six glaring 
          omissions. It all comes down to how we define a 
                                      threat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      What do the CIA want us to do? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Nothing. To be honest. Most of this lot are either 
          in the UK permanently, planning arms deals or 
        tooling up for private wars in Eastern Europe. No 
        history of high level political assassinations, no 
            personal belief systems that suggest a grudge 
                        against US or UK policy... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    Then all would appear shipshape. 
 


 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 34 

                                        TOM 
          I was hoping we could at least action some low-
            grade surveillance on them. Even if Christine 
              doesn t think they warrant attention, I do. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Fine. I ll pass this list on to Ruth. 
 
                                        TOM 
                I ll be with Christine at Horseguards. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                        Why? 
 
                                        TOM 
        We re doing a walkthrough of the close protection 
                        on the sightseeing phase. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      If this trip s so important... 
                                        (beat) 
              Why s the President spending the morning 
                                    sightseeing? 
 
A look amongst the team - that s a really good point. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0810 
 
RUTH is at her station. HARRY appears, post-meeting - under 
the cover of handing her TOM s list of suspects: 
 
                                        HARRY 
            I presume whatever  problem  existed with the 
                crate has disappeared? Please say yes. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        Yes. 
 
TOM arrives, takes HARRY aside- 
 
                                        TOM 
          I just got a call from the Met. I can t believe 
                                  you ve agreed. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          It s either that or remove DC Khan from active 
          service-the U.S. Ambassador took this to the Home 
                                Office himself. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Yeah, well. Either way it won t be him picking up 
                      the pieces if this gets out. 
 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 35 

                                        HARRY 
        These visits are always more about diplomacy than 
        security, Tom. And diplomacy s a tricky business. 
 
                                        TOM 
            That s why I didn t join the bloody Foreign 
                                      Office. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        When are you two walking through the Horseguards 
                                      section? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Hour and a half. 
                            (beat-bee in his bonnet) 
        First she stirs up a race relations snafu then she 
        starts messing with royal protocol. She s going to 
                        drive us up the wall, Harry. 
 
CHRISTINE has appeared - ready to go - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Who is? 
 
TOM spies MIRANDA. Glances in her direction to give CHRISTINE 
the impression MIRANDA is driving him nuts. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                          Oh, appraisal time huh? 
                                (little too loud) 
                          Who s getting the boot? 
 
RUTH hears this. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - DAY 2. 0817 
 
MALCOLM is looking at another piece of paper from the crate. 
It s surprising to him. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                      Oh my. 
 
EXT. THAMES HOUSE - DAY 2. 0900 
 
UNKNOWN POV: TOM and CHRISTINE leave, watched from this 
unknown position. They get into a waiting car. 
 
The car moves off - as do we - 
 
And we realise that we re in a car too. Following. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 2. 0901 
 


 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 36 

MI5 OPERATOR fresh as a daisy despite the early hour. 
 
                          AMERICAN VOICE TWO (V.O.) 
        Thamesider this is Blacktop. Stagecoach will be on 
            the move in thirty. Tracer and Halfback in 
                                      position. 
 
                    OPERATOR (getting into the spirit) 
          Roger that. Phase Two in motion. Prepping Phase 
        Three, ETA at Brenda s Place 1205. Standing by for 
                            Horseguards walkthrough- 
 
                          AMERICAN VOICE TWO (V.O.) 
                                Brenda s Place? 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
                              Buckingham Palace. 
 
The surveillance camera shows the exterior of a van- 
 
EXT. HORSEGUARDS PARADE - DAY 2. 1000 
 
We see a parade of livered guards walk past... But we re 
interested in the van parked a little way off... 
 
                                  CHRISTINE V.O. 
        I m not worried about snipers, it s a closed limo. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                        So let s free up Blue team. 
 
                                  CHRISTINE V.O. 
            I still want rooftop detail covering all the 
                              chutes out of there. 
 
INT. MI5 SURVEILLANCE VAN - DAY 2. 1000 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE hunker down. It s a close proximity thing in 
here and there s tension. We hear a continual background noise 
of Secret Service earpiece chatter. 
 
CAPTION:  PHASE III: HORSEGUARDS  
 
                                        TOM 
        Anyone so much as throws a turnip, they ll be put 
                                  in the cage. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            And the phone calls? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What phone calls? 
 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 37 

                                      CHRISTINE 
        The ones you ve been getting on your cellphone for 
                            the last twelve hours. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      They re none of your business. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          You changed your number in the middle of a live 
          project, Tom. That s called interference. And if 
        something s interfering with the smooth running of 
                    my operation, it s my business. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          There s no interference. 
                                        (beat) 
                      And it s not your operation. 
 
A burst of chatter in their ears - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1007 
 
RUTH and MALCOLM stand in front of HARRY. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          There are two issues here. One. We re getting a 
                lot of chatter at the Libyan embassy. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            What kind of chatter? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            A lot of euphemisms for America being bandied 
        around. Several vehicles trying very hard to lose 
          their tails. There s not been anything on this 
                                scale since  84. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    Any indication of concrete plans? 
 
                                        RUTH 
        It s all disguised as everyday diplomatic traffic, 
        Harry. But I don t like it one bit. Which brings 
                                    us to two. 
 
MALCOLM produces a document - it s covered in tea. The one he 
reacted to. 
 
                                  RUTH (cont d) 
          A deal memo - in the rough, of course - between 
                              the US and Libya. 
 



 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 38 

                                      MALCOLM 
        They accept responsibility for Lockerbie and pay 
        seven billion dollars in reparations, the US end 
        unilateral sanctions and help remove them from the 
                  Axis of Evil, amongst other things. 
 
HARRY glowers at the document. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              No mention of reparations for UK victims? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  None at all. 
 
                                  HARRY (thinks) 
          What do we have on the Libyans at the moment? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        I ll ask Sam to fish it out. 
 
MIRANDA arrives. RUTH looks up at her - annoyed. 
 
INT. SEWER - DAY 2. 1028 
 
Secret Service and ATU OFFICERS are down here, walking, 
patrolling underground. One is checking a seal on a manhole 
cover - 
 
SPLIT SCREEN HORIZONTALLY 
 
And up on top, in step with the officers- 
 
EXT. HORSEGUARDS PARADE - DAY 2. 1030 
 
CHRISTINE and TOM walk from the van... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    Walkthrough time. Come on, Sparky. 
 
A line of POLICE are here, plus plain clothes and the 
ubiquitous Secret Service men. Underneath, the patrols 
continue. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          I understand my  vetting  request on the Muslim 
              officer caused some ripples. That right? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It certainly did. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        I m sorry about that Tom. I m just protecting my 



 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 39 

                                      President. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Of course you are. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              By the way. Any idea who s following us? 
 
TOM turns back - to be confronted with a very angry VICKY: 
 
                                        VICKY 
                              I knew it-I KNEW IT! 
 
Heads are turning- 
 
                                  VICKY (cont d) 
          I sodding well knew you were two-timing me. Who 
                      the hell are you, witch face? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Excuse me-? 
 
                                        VICKY 
          Well I m your worst nightmare sweetie, an ex-
                  girlfriend with bigger tits than you. 
 
                              TOM (goes to Vicky) 
          You are putting yourself and others in a lot of 
        danger right now, unless you get the hell out of 
                                        here. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            Oh, what, it s some big spy bonanza is it? 
                            (some bystanders look) 
        He s a spy you know. Tom Quinn is a SPOOK! So what 
          if you ask me, it s no great shakes. I should 
                                        know! 
 
TOM pulls her close- 
 
                                        TOM 
                The flyers, Vicky - how many are there? 
 
                                VICKY (smiling) 
                            The look on your face- 
 
TOM makes himself scarce- 
 
                      CHRISTINE (loudly, obviously) 
          Hey lady I don t know who you are but Bob and I 
          have been happily married for six years and if 
        you re on some kind of bad drug trip I suggest you 
                        look into rehab right away - 


 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 40 

 
                                        VICKY 
        No-one dumps ME like a sack of shit and gets away 
                            without PAYING FOR IT! 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Someone call an ambulance for this woman, she s 
                                    not well- 
 
CHRISTINE now departs, leaving a few plain clothes Secret 
Service agents to move in and gently nudge her back the way 
she came. VICKY regards the Met Police for a moment - realises 
this is a good time to walk away. And she does. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 2. 1033 
 
RUTH sits in front of MIRANDA. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
        Anything at all. Anything or anyone you feel needs 
              scrutiny. Just let rip. This is your time. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                    What s everyone else been saying? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                        Lots of interesting things. 
 
SAM knocks, enters - papers in hand - 
 
                                        SAM 
        Sorry - Ruth, GCHQ said you d better look at this 
                                          - 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                            We re in the middle - 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Yes, Miranda, we bloody well are in the middle - 
 
RUTH leaves, grabbing the papers. MIRANDA tut tuts, starts 
making notes on her clipboard. 
 
EXT. ST. JAMES S PARK - DAY 2. 1040 
 
A quiet oasis, TOM with his thoughts. CHRISTINE standing with 
him. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Ex-girlfriend, huh?  
                                    (Tom nods) 
                              Wanna talk about it? 
 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 41 

TOM shakes his head. CHRISTINE shrugs. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                          You must be a great lay. 
 
TOM checks his watch. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              We better get back. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You better start telling me exactly what s going 
                                        on. 
 
We hold on the look between them - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1100 
 
RUTH, HARRY, DANNY. HARRY has a report in his hand. ZOE is out 
of earshot but visible at her desk on the other side of the 
Grid - 
 
                                        RUTH 
        We re getting a fix on at least fifteen security 
          threats and planning raids on ten. We have phone 
          taps going haywire within a two mile radius of 
                              every checkpoint... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Get as much background as you can. 
 
HARRY departs. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        It s these Americans, I m telling you. Infecting 
        this whole place. Hypochondriacs the lot of them. 
                                    (to Danny) 
                                So did you hear? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        What? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Someone s getting the sack. 
 
DANNY s reaction. 
 
EXT. ST. JAMES S PARK - DAY 2. 1100 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE. CHRISTINE is looking at TOM s copy of the 
flyer. 
 



 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 42 

                                        TOM 
                          It s all under control. 
 
She turns back to TOM - sceptical. But it soon changes to the 
concerned look of a friend. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        It s a career defining moment, Tom. If the wrong 
          kind of someone s seen those pictures of you - 
        you ll never go out in the field again, that s for 
            sure. Jesus, Tom. You could lose your job. 
 
TOM nods - he knows that. And it hurts, deeply. 
 
                          CHRISTINE (cont d) (beat) 
                            Okay. Who else knows? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      No-one. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          You just tore them all down yourself, did you? 
 
                                        TOM 
            I had some help but that s all. One person. 
 
CHRISTINE thinks. Looks at her watch. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                          Well. Now you ve got two. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Christine-I don t know... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          I m not letting you deal with this on your own. 
                                      Come on. 
 
TOM is at a loss-CHRISTINE starts to harden. The individual 
slowly replaced by the corporate- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
            Whatcha gonna do? Wait around til she does it 
                                        again? 
 
                                  TOM (resolved) 
              I have to clear it with Harry before I do 
                                      anything- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Are you kidding? You ve seen what she s capable 
                                        of. 
 


 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 43 

The seriousness of this is finally hitting TOM - and CHRISTINE 
now fully on a CIA official statement: 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        No reason why she s going to stop now. We have to 
                    act now before she does it again. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Wait a second- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          That woman is jeopardising the security of this 
          operation. This is now a CIA matter. And we will 
                        not hesitate to act alone. 
 
Off TOM s reaction - his phone rings - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1149 
 
ZOE, DANNY. ZOE s under a dark cloud, reading a document- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    You could have stood up for me. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        When? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Back at Brenda s. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Where? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    The palace. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        You were Queen, you could stand up for yourself- 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I wasn t the Queen, I was the QE2, apparently. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Then you should have sounded your horn. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        This isn t funny, you know. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Tell me about it. 
 
Danny s hinting at something else here. 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 44 

Beat. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      You are being so strange ... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Can you blame me? Can you blame anyone? I don t 
            see how we re expected to work with all this 
                            hanging over our heads. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                How d you mean? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Haven t you heard? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Heard what? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Are you telling me you haven t heard? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Yes. I am. HEARD WHAT? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Danny- 
 
HARRY arrives as DANNY leaves. ZOE, tortured not to know what 
 what  is... hands HARRY a report- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Latest threat assessment- 
 
                                HARRY (takes it) 
        Thank you. And I d appreciate it if you didn t bad 
        mouth Security Service projects in office time - 
          the people who commissioned them in the first 
                            place might get upset. 
 
ZOE is momentarily phased- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Sorry, Harry? 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Please don t whitewash. Danny s told me all about 
                            it. The wierdo line? 
 
ZOE doesn t have a clue what he is talking about. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                  I would have expected more from you. 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 45 

 
HARRY leaves. ZOE flushes - stares daggers at DANNY across the 
Grid. TOM arrives behind him. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 2. 1215 
 
OPERATOR watching screen. (Remember US PRON. is  enn rowt ) 
 
CAPTION:  PHASE IV: BUCKINGHAM PALACE  
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
                    Tracer now en route to Kittyhawk. 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
        Still have forty minutes in this phase, over. Say 
                                        again. 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
          Tracer in motion. Schedule change. Now enroute 
                              here to Blacktop. 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
                  Since when is that on the schedule? 
                                        (beat) 
        Blacktop this is Thamesider, since when is that on 
                              the schedule over? 
                                        (beat) 
          This is an unauthorized change in the schedule. 
                        Please advise immediately! 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1230 
 
RUTH sits a little nervous. ZOE comes up to her. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      How long s Sam been in there? 
 
RUTH consults her watch. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Too bloody long. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      Did she say anything to you? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                        No. 
                                        (beat) 
                    Why, did she say anything to you? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Well, no. 
 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 46 

Silence between them. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                          Can I ask you something? 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                      Depends. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        What the hell is going on? Harry just gave me the 
                                  third degree. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                          Someone s getting the sack. 
 
                                OVER WITH DANNY 
 
As he watches ZOE and RUTH talking. They both look over at him 
in a disapproving way. DANNY clearly takes this hard. 
 
INT. CIA CAR - DAY 2. 1245 
 
CHRISTINE is being driven by a suit. CHRISTINE accesses her 
PDA, crossing things off a list. A thought occurs- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    (on mobile) 
                              I ll see you there. 
                          (She hangs up. To driver) 
            I just need to make a quick stop. You got a 
                                      minute? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY 2. 1247 
 
MIRANDA sits with SAM. 
 
                                        SAM 
        And the water cooler s too hot. And the pod doors 
            open too slow. I m not sure there s a lot of 
          usefulness in the way the Grid s designed either, 
        I have to say, when you re at the photocopy island 
            and you need to scan it in for a quickmail- 
 
MIRANDA is scribbling madly, trying to keep up. There are 
screeds of pages being written. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
            Can you just ... slow down ... a second ... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1300 
 
HARRY and TOM. 
 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 47 

                                        TOM 
        I always presumed any new Lockerbie deal would be 
                          in consultation with us. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        It s still theory as far as we know, it could be 
                        an innocent hypothetical. 
 
                                        TOM 
        The President s going off schedule. We re in Phase 
            III and he s in Phase IV. There has to be a 
                                  subterfuge here. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          There might be a perfectly logical explanation. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Well there s a perfectly illogical woman who could 
            clarify that. Unless she s off schedule too - 
 
He starts dialling. 
 
EXT. HOSPITAL. AMBULANCE BAY - DAY 2. 1305 
 
VICKY tends to a patient as he is brought out of an ambulance. 
 
A car pulls up nearby, and two men get out. Two large men in 
suits. 
 
With the thickest necks you ve ever seen. TRENT and Brent. 
 
It takes VICKY a second to realise - a second too late as 
she s grabbed and held against the wall by TRENT/Brent. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                        Help! 
 
A large suit hoves in to her ear. 
 
                                        SUIT 
                                        Ssh. 
 
They start to move her away - 
 
Colleagues stand and stare... VICKY looks pleadingly-they turn 
away. All been briefed. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 1321 
 
HARRY with TOM, ZOE, DANNY, RUTH. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            This visit was last minute. If there was an 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 48 

        arrangement to meet the Libyans it would have been 
                                    a hasty one. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Unless it s been the goal all along. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        The French insinuated there was a Libyan meeting 
                                  on the cards. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          It does explain why the Americans scheduled in 
                            that sightseeing tour. 
 
                                        TOM 
      As cover for the meeting preparations, over Libyan 
                                      chatter- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                So what if he has the meeting or not? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          The seven major state sponsors of terrorism are 
            Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, Cuba, 
                                        Libya. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Who wants their name off that list most of all? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                        Libya. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    Who wants out of the Arab League? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                        Libya. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        And who cannot be seen officially negotiating with 
        the diplomatic office of an Axis of Evil nation? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      The United States of America. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            But what are they going to be talking about? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Lockerbie. 
 




 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 49 

                                        RUTH 
        They could close the deal without even including 
                                        us. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We all know how well you know the American mind, 
        Tom. But there s only one person who can tell us 
                                    for sure. 
 
TOM nods. To ZOE: 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Try her again. 
 
INT. VICKY S APARTMENT - DAY 2. 1336 
 
VICKY walks in, trembling. The suits follow. 
 
                                        VICKY 
            You need a warrant for this and you KNOW IT- 
 
And she looks up to see a new face. CHRISTINE. Standing in the 
doorway. Her mobile rings. She holds up a finger. Wait while I 
take this- 
 
                        CHRISTINE (bright and shiny) 
        Oh - hi! I m just in the middle of something, can 
                                I call you back? 
 
She ends the call before TOM can answer- 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                  Who are you? 
 
VICKY goes to her - a large hand on her shoulder stops her. 
She sits down heavily. Starts to cry. 
 
                                  VICKY (cont d) 
                                Please-please stop! 
 
The suits are waiting for something. CHRISTINE looks at them - 
hard as fucking nails - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            Tear this place apart. 
 
VICKY stares - why? The place looks completely fine. But 
things start unravelling pretty quickly- 
 
Drawers are opened. Drugs are found. A pro-Taliban leaflet. A 
paperback book  Why do People Hate America? . (All planted, of 
course, from the Suits  pockets). 
 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 50 

A SUIT rounds on VICKY - holds the book up: 
 
                                        SUIT 
                              You like this book? 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                That s not mine- 
 
                            SUIT (flicking pages) 
                        Make good reading, does it? 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                      Stop it! 
 
Another suit removes prescription drugs from a bureau. 
Examines them - shows them to the SUIT. 
 
                                        SUIT 
        Did you know writing false prescriptions will get 
                you struck off the doctor s register? 
 
And all the time, CHRISTINE is there, the puppetmaster. 
Finally she approaches VICKY. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        You re in a lot of trouble. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                        This is all ... a mistake- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You are putting the security of the President of 
        the United States of America at risk and we intend 
                                  to stop that. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                    What?? Me? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You have already put the operational security of 
                        this man in serious danger - 
 
She pulls out a copy of TOM S flyer - 
 
                                        VICKY 
        I m a doctor. I save lives. I have nothing to do 
                                    with this- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        If you want to continue saving lives - including 
        your own - I suggest you leave this man alone. Do 
                                you understand? 
 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 51 

Suddenly there s something in VICKY - she s looking at 
CHRISTINE - maybe divining the sexual subtext here. Even 
CHRISTINE hasn t realised there IS a subtext, but perhaps in 
this look she does now... these two are fighting because of a 
man. 
 
                                        VICKY 
                                    I understand. 
 
CHRISTINE gets close to VICKY. Menace. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        You re on vacation for a few days. Leave town. If 
            you contact this man or even mention him in 
          conversation, we will find out. And all this will 
                    come tumbling down on your head. 
 
VICKY smooths her hair - trying not to cry. But it s hard. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                                Have a nice day. 
 
And she s gone. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1342 
 
Danny sits at his desk as SAM walks by. It s clear she s just 
come out of session with Miranda. Danny looks at his watch. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Quite a session. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                        Sorry? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I was just saying - you were in there for ages. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Was I? 
                                (looks at watch) 
                                  Guess I was. 
 
She s nearby enough that he can SCOOT his chair across to her. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Everything alright? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                In what sense? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    In there. 


 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 52 

 
                                        SAM 
              Oh - oh, yeah, totally fine. She s lovely 
        actually. A great listener. Got a lot of stuff off 
      my chest. I think it s a brilliant idea don t you? 
 
                                  DANNY (hmmm) 
                        Yeah. Absolutely. Brilliant. 
 
                                        SAM 
        Exactly. Finally getting a chance to say what you 
                        really think about things. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      So ... what were your things? 
 
                                        SAM 
              What did I talk to her about d you mean? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Just - generally... 
 
Zoe s coming over. 
 
                                        SAM 
                            Generally what things? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Doesn t matter. 
 
Zoe s nearly there. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          You ve confused me now. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  No, honestly, don t worry about it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Just heard - 
 
She senses that their conversation has stopped because of her 
presence. 
 
                                  ZOE (cont d) 
                  - sorry have I interrupted something? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              No, no - what s up? 
 
Sam, sensing it s better if she just steps back and gets on 
with things, does so. Glances at Danny, which Zoe picks up. 
Danny sets off - causing Zoe to follow. 


 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 53 

 
                                        ZOE 
                    - the President s gone walkabout. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1345 
 
TOM, HARRY, DANNY, ZOE. CHRISTINE on the speakerphone. 
 
                                        HARRY 
      We have surveillance telling us the Libyan Embassy 
            lines are going mad just around the time your 
        President decides to go off piste. We re trying to 
          keep abreast of threats here, we d appreciate a 
                          little honesty from you- 
 
INT. CHRISTINE S FLAT - DAY 2. 1346 
 
CHRISTINE on the phone- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Today is Ashley s fifteenth birthday. Ashley is 
        the US Ambassador s daughter. And the President, 
          who knows this, had the idea at Horseguards of 
        getting a birthday present for her and delivering 
                                  it in person. 
 
INTERCUT CONVERSATION: 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
      So he cut the tour short and sent someone shopping 
        for a video game. Harrods I believe. The President 
        was then invited to try the game out for himself, 
        which he was only too pleased to do. This is why 
            he made the detour. And that is why we are 
        currently a mere fifteen minutes behind schedule. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Keeping her Majesty waiting. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            I thought she had a Lady to do that for her. 
                                        (beat) 
          By the way Tom, met a friend of yours earlier. 
        She s leaving the country for a while. I thought 
                      you might like to know. Bye. 
 
TOM knows exactly what this means, on both levels. A) VICKY s 
no longer a problem, and B) YOU OWE ME. 
 
CHRISTINE hangs up. DANNY and ZOE leave. TOM moves to go. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              You can stay, Tom. 


 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 54 

 
DANNY shoots him a look as she shuts the door. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                So she s lying. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              Excuse me while I fall over from surprise. 
 
But HARRY s not here to talk about CHRISTINE- 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
        At one p.m. today two agents from the U.S. Secret 
        Service marched into one of London s busiest A and 
              E units and kidnapped one of its medical 
                                      registrars. 
 
TOM thinks about saying something - decides against it. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
          I m presuming there was a very good reason for 
                                  this, correct? 
                                    (Tom nods) 
        An immediate need to remove a liability from our 
                              respective orbits? 
 
Another nod. Here it comes- 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
          Operationally, I give you free rein. I ve done so 
      in the past and I do so willingly. But you consult 
        with ME before acting preemptively like this on a 
                                personal matter. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  It stopped being a personal matter- 
 
                                        HARRY 
        We re in the final phase now. The President s on 
            the move again at 1600, we have a pointless 
        Personnel person interfering with our staff morale 
        and a viper s nest of paranoia on the Grid. I need 
                  your 100% focus is that understood? 
 
TOM nods. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                            Good luck at Chequers. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - DAY 2. 1400 
 
MI5 OPERATOR on the cans. 
 


 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 55 

CAPTION:  PHASE V: CHEQUERS  
 
                                      OPERATOR 
            Roger that, Stagecoach returning to Blacktop. 
                        Marine One airborne in ten. 
 
INT. NEWS STUDIO - DAY 2. 1428 
 
FILMED INSERT: Protestors with placards, anti-Bush, etc. 
 
                                      NEWSREADER 
        Climate change and the world economy will also be 
          on the agenda in the talks this afternoon, in 
                addition to the main agenda of Mr Bush's 
              controversial military policy of preemptive 
        strikes. These protestors started gathering a few 
          minutes ago. Official sources have denied that 
        Chequers is even on the President s itinerary but 
        the security surrounding this high level visit is 
                    the strongest in living memory... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1430 
 
HARRY watches the footage with TOM, ZOE and DANNY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Double perimeter security and brief local forces 
            to take orders from Chequers Control direct. 
                                    (to Danny) 
          Danny, join Tom up at Chequers will you? What s 
                        outstanding on the Trip List? 
 
                                        TOM 
            Reservoir security s been doubled but we still 
        need a team watching incoming pipes. We re a clean 
        sweep on vetting, both Chequers staff and medical 
        teams. Protestors are under control... All foreign 
        agents are locked down on ABC close quarter... And 
            we ve got five of our own Close Protection 
                officers in full view of the cameras - 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        With their lapel badges - ? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              With lapel badges. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        The PM will be pleased. Security teams are meeting 
            the President on the South Lawn I take it? 
 
                                    TOM (yep) 



 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 56 

        Local plods are keeping the crowds behind the far 
          perimeter. Press are being limited to a hundred 
                                      metres. 
 
ZOE sits there - what about me? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Should I stay here? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      For now. 
 
ZOE chastened. What does that mean? The sack?? 
 
SAM arrives with a huge and weighty number of folders and box 
files. It teeters as she places it in front of HARRY. 
 
                                  HARRY (cont d) 
                                  What s that? 
 
                                        SAM 
                      What we have over the Libyans. 
 
EXT. SKY - DAY 2. 1450 
 
STOCK FOOTAGE: Marine One s rotors scythe through the air. 
 
                                MARINE ONE (V.O.) 
          RAF Halton, this is Marine One, wheels down on 
                  south field ETA forty minutes over. 
 
                              HALTON VOICE (V.O.) 
        Roger that Marine One. Looking forward to seeing 
                                    you again. 
 
EXT. CHEQUERS - DAY 2. 1530 
 
The beautiful house. A U.S. Secret Service suit wanders past 
in standard issue sunglasses. Earpiece blaring. 
 
INT. CHEQUERS. CORRIDORS TO CONTROL ROOM - DAY 2. 1532 
 
Walking through the ornate corridors - CHRISTINE walks with 
TOM. TOM talks to DANNY, who is in the kitchen, on his mobile. 
INTERCUT between corridors and the kitchen. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Sitrep Danny..? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Floors one and two are cleared, all teams in 
                                        place. 
 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 57 

                                        TOM 
                              What about the roof? 
 
                                        DANNY 
            It s covered. Snipers have 270 sight on all 
                                  compass points. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What s that noise? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      I m just checking the kitchen. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Don t try and cook anything, Danny - leave that to 
                                    the chefs. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Don t worry. I won t. 
 
                            CHRISTINE (into radio) 
        All details, this is Blacktop Control, we have a 
                wheels down in ten, I need sitreps NOW. 
 
They enter a high tech control room - it s a field office but 
still covered in technology. Large screens broadcast shots of 
the stately home and other gadgetry hums. TOM draws the 
curtains. 
 
INT. CHEQUERS. KITCHENS - DAY 2. 1600 
 
DANNY walks through the busy kitchens, checking that all 
security teams are in place. 
 
INT. CHEQUERS. BEDROOM - DAY 2. 1600 
 
CIA man walking through bedrooms doing final checks. 
 
                            CIA MAN (into radio) 
        All floors now clear. Helipad prepared, and armed 
                            protection standing by. 
 
EXT. CHEQUERS. ROOF - DAY 2. 1608 
 
Rooftop counter-sniper teams survey the horizon. One of them 
taps his colleague - they focus on something... 
 
INT. CHEQUERS. CONTROL ROOM - DAY 2. 1616 
 
CHRISTINE and TOM in here again. TOM finishes a call. 
 
                                        TOM 
                That was Danny. All teams are in place. 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 58 

 
                              RAF HALTON (V.O.) 
                Control this is Hawkeye... We ve got an 
        unidentified songbird coming into restricted space 
                                on the radar... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Please clarify. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. 1631 
 
HARRY sits. ZOE arrives - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            You should see this. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID. ZOE S DESK - DAY 2. 1632 
 
ZOE, RUTH, HARRY - looking over surveillance photos. A 
collection of men in suits, and a harder-looking man. We 
should recognise this photo from the MI5 Trip List suspects in 
an earlier scene. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Dmitri Bubka was on our housekeeping surveillance. 
        Ex Moscow Mafia, now living here. One of our own 
          Trip List longshots. The other suits are arms 
          dealers. We think some of them have been hawking 
                              medical equipment. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          I understand this is a matter for research, Zoe, 
                                        but - 
 
                                        ZOE 
        This was taken yesterday. Ten miles from Chequers. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                What equipment? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Radiotherapy machines. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Radiotherapy machines hold enough Cobalt 60 to 
        take out Oxford Street on a sunny day. If you can 
                                    get at it. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Your implication here is- 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                    Dirty bomb. 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 59 

 
EXT. CHEQUERS. ROOF - DAY 2. 1634 
 
Snipers on the roof keep watch on the horizon. Suddenly one of 
them spots something... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 1635 
 
ZOE, HARRY, RUTH around the speaker. 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
            We have a microlight on a direct routing to 
                                      Chequers. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Have you got a visual? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
          Snipers have just picked it out from the roof. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              How far away is it? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
              Three, four miles-it s a small fixed wing. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                      What are the local aerodromes? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
                          Chiltern Park and Horwood. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Does it have a radio? 
 
                                      TOM V.O. 
            Some do, some don t. Aerodrome say he s not 
                                      responding. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Tell them to keep trying! 
 
Colour draining from their faces now - 
 
INT. CHEQUERS. CONTROL ROOM - DAY 2. 1636 
 
CHRISTINE grabs the phone from TOM. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            I need air cover NOW. 
 
                                      HARRY (D) 
        There are two Tornados on standby at Cottesmore - 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 60 

 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Well get Master Control on the line and tell them 
                              to launch the Qs- 
                      (hands phone back - into radio) 
                  Sniper detail, can you get a shot? 
 
                              SNIPER VOICE (V.O.) 
                        We can get a shot in ten. 
 
                            CHRISTINE (into radio) 
                    Be ready to engage on my signal. 
 
                              TOM (to Christine) 
        You speak to me. Then I speak to him. That is how 
                              it s going to work. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        You want this on your head? 
 
                                        TOM 
                              It s a microlight. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                Yeah, Tom. Like I said. A microlight. 
 
EXT. RAF CRAWFORD (STOCK FOOTAGE) - DAY 2. 1640 
 
A Tornado roars into the sky - and then another - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM/INT.CHEQUERS. CONTROL ROOM DAY 
2. 1644 
 
Things are getting heated. 
 
USING SPLITSCREEN - 
We weave in and out between control room & meeting room 
 
The key acting note here is increasing paranoia - 
 
                                        RUTH 
                Not if he s carrying nuclear material- 
 
                                        TOM 
          Who ever said anything about nuclear material?? 
 
CHRISTINE hears this, heads over- 
 
                                        HARRY 
      We have nothing credible on that score - however - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      What goddamn nuclear material? 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 61 

 
                                        RUTH 
      We cannot discount it completely - a known hitman, 
            sourcing the raw material for a dirty bomb - 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We re putting two and two together to make 
                          thirteen! It s ludicrous! 
 
                                        RUTH 
          No more ludicrous than crashing a plane into a 
            building. Ask anyone about how ludicrous that 
                    sounded on September 10th 2001... 
 
                                        TOM 
                Check with the Met Office on local wind 
          conditions, he could just be being blown across- 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                            WHAT NUCLEAR MATERIAL? 
 
                                        HARRY 
              We have a source who claims there may be 
            radioactive material near the Chequers site - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  What, on its own, in a restaurant? 
 
                                        RUTH 
          A UK-based hitman was seen attempting to acquire 
                                some in London- 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Attempting being the operative word! 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                    Oh, great - 
 
SAM comes back into the Meeting Room - 
 
                                        SAM 
          They re still trying to verify the I.D. of the 
                                microlight pilot. 
 
MASTER CONTROL NORWICH 
 
Qs are airborne, passing control to CAOC D.C. High Wycombe... 
 
                              TORNADO PILOT (V.O.) 
              D.C. this is Q One we are now approaching 
                                Chequers- are we 
                          authorised to engage over? 
 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 62 

                                        TOM 
                                        No-! 
 
                            DUTY CONTROLLER (V.O.) 
              Affirmative Q One, engage on visual. Front 
                    controller, do you have a position? 
 
                                        TOM 
          Do not engage target until we have confirmed - 
                                        over. 
 
                            DUTY CONTROLLER (V.O.) 
                              Cut the chatter - 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Who called this in? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        The Protective Research Section of the U.S. Secret 
          Service, the CIA and the executive power of the 
        U.S. Federal Government has advised the Royal Air 
                        Force to engage the target. 
 
                                        TOM 
            You shoot that thing out of the sky with a 
            sidewinder missile and you re not just killing 
          someone-You re raining down hot metal and rocket 
                        fuel on hundreds of people- 
 
                                        RUTH 
                        We need more information! 
 
                                        HARRY 
                              This is all we have. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
              There is a small fixed wing aircraft on a 
        collision course with this building. This building 
        houses the President of the United States and the 
        Prime Minister of Great Britain. I am not going to 
                        allow it to get any closer! 
 
                                        TOM 
                          You went over our heads - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            We shoot it now, it disperses over there, we 
                            mobilise chem-bio units- 
 
SAM runs in - 
 




 62                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 63 

                                        SAM 
          Met Office say there s a strong following wind 
                      that could be blowing him in- 
 
                            DUTY CONTROLLER (V.O.) 
            Front controller, do you have a visual over? 
 
                              SNIPER VOICE (V.O.) 
          Songbird is turning. Repeat, target is turning. 
 
Silence. 
 
WITH TOM and CHRISTINE 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                Is he turning? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                Is he turning? 
 
                              SNIPER VOICE (V.O.) 
                            Oh yeah, he s turning. 
 
                              DUTY CONTROL (V.O.) 
                      I repeat do you have a visual? 
 
                                CHRISTINE (beat) 
                                        Tom? 
 
TOM glares at CHRISTINE - takes radio. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Negative. Will confirm with Air Defence Control. 
                      Target is no longer a threat. 
 
The fighters roar away - a moment of silence. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 1655 
 
A moment of silence. The room looks at each other. Realises 
the insanity that just took place. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                          Like she said. Paranoia. 
 
Everyone s phones all ring at once - 
 
DISSOLVE TO: 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. COMPUTER ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2000 
 
OPERATOR on the earphones. 
 


 63                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 64 

CAPTION:  PHASE VI: WHEELS UP  
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
            Tower this is Air Force One we are wheels up. 
 
                                      OPERATOR 
                  Air Force One has cleared the tower. 
 
He s pleased with himself saying that. No-one s around to 
witness it. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2003 
 
Everyone is here. Dazed. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Microlight pilot was a Mr. Smith. Strayed into 
                restricted space with a defective radio. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            And a defective head. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Dmitri? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Customs are on to that one. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      A project for tomorrow perhaps. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2015 
 
TOM sits at his desk, exhausted. CHRISTINE starts to walk 
towards him, but DANNY is also walking. CHRISTINE knows when 
to hang back - and does so. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                            Am I getting the sack? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Danny? 
 
                                        DANNY 
        Tom. Please tell me. Cos I d prefer to hear it to 
                                my face, now... 
 
                                        TOM 
                What the hell is this? Of course not- 
 
                                        DANNY 
        You would tell me, wouldn t you? I mean, I d hope 
                                    you and I- 


 64                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 65 

 
                                        TOM 
        Danny you re not getting the bloody sack, alright? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Great. Great. 
 
But ZOE has overheard. 
 
                                  DANNY (cont d) 
        Only Ruth said - she overheard Harry - they were 
                        talking of losing someone- 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            And Harry was saying- 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Danny is not getting the sack! 
 
ZOE nods. Hurt. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    So it s me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        NO-ONE IS GETTING THE SACK! 
 
ZOE and DANNY look at TOM - everyone so so tired. DANNY and 
ZOE nod, head back to their desks. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Sorry. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      And me. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2029 
 
SAM works. TOM approaches. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Thank you. For everything. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    No problem. 
 
SAM looks up as CHRISTINE arrives - ready to go - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        You haven t thanked me yet. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              I was just about to. 


 65                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 66 

 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                    I did you a big favour, you know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Consider it known. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                      So now you can do one for me. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                And what s that? 
 
CHRISTINE leans close to TOM. Uncomfortably close... a 
whisper. TOM s face - nervous. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. FORGERY SUITE - NIGHT 2. 2037 
 
MALCOLM closes up the crate. A set of documents covered in tea 
lie piled on the desk. 
 
TOM arrives - followed by CHRISTINE. Horror - 
 
                                        TOM 
        We ve been waiting for someone to come and collect 
                                        it. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                        Admin error huh? It happens. 
                                        (beat) 
            The French tipped us off that you were were 
          looking through U.S. diplomatic material. Which 
        made us suspicious because the French never ever 
        do us any favours. So we could only presume that 
        the reason they were doing it was to drive a wedge 
                        between the UK and the USA. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          That could never happen. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      Absolutely. 
 
                                        TOM 
                  So that rumour must be false, then. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                  What rumour? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  That nasty, Libyan sort of rumour. 
 



 66                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 67 

                                      CHRISTINE 
        Tell you what. If there s anything going on with 
        us and the Libyans in the UK, you ll be the first 
                                      to know. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    And the same to you. Of course. 
 
A phone rings. MALCOLM answers. A look at TOM- 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                                Miranda for you? 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2050 
 
TOM sits opposite MIRANDA. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
        I have a litany of comments here. Many directed at 
                                        you. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Brilliant. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
          Doesn t it worry you that most of the staff on 
                this floor are overworked and paranoid? 
 
                                        TOM 
        No. This was meant to be a steam valve exercise. 
          And that s what that is - steam. And anyway I m 
                  not the one who should be worried. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                                Is that right? 
 
                                        TOM 
      Oh yes. Because whatever everyone s said about me, 
        it s NOTHING compared to what they ve been saying 
                                    about YOU. 
 
MIRANDA is taken aback. 
 
                                  TOM (cont d) 
        This was a shocking exercise. I m appalled these 
        mind games were condoned during such a stressful 
                                        time. 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
        Personnel wanted a psychological topography of the 
        department. They wanted to know who in the Section 
            could be classed as a theoretical weak link. 
 


 67                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 68 

                                    TOM (beat) 
                      And what were your findings? 
 
                                      MIRANDA 
                              There aren t any. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I beg to differ. I think I m looking at the 
                            weakest link right now. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2055 
 
CHRISTINE walks to the pods. Smiles goodbye as her phone 
rings. Enters the pod - 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Hi. I need a car - has Brent finished his report? 
                            Good. On my desk PDQ. 
 
As she passes through the pod 
 
We switch to CCTV on the other side. The Pod doors shut- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        Oh - and tell the Libyans to tighten up security 
      on our little project. We almost got busted today. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2100 
 
HARRY sits on his own in front of a monitor. It s a hidden 
camera sound and vision record of Americans talking to 
Libyans. HARRY picks up the phone. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Tell the Libyans thank you very much - the sound 
                              quality is superb. 
 
He turns up the volume. We hear: 
 
                              AMERICAN VOICE (V.O.) 
        The British? Since when were the British part of 
                              OUR Lockerbie deal? 
 
                                  LIBYAN VOICE 
                        Since we decided they were. 
 
The Libyan glances up at the camera. HARRY chuckles in delight 
- he s won. Again. 
 
INT. TOM S HOUSE - NIGHT 2. 2138 
 
TOM sits on the sofa. Turns on his TV, zombie-like. On 
television, footage of Air Force One leaving: 


 68                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 69 

 
                                  NEWSREADER V.O. 
            The President left on Air Force One at eight 
            o clock this evening after his short visit to 
        Britain. Despite many threats to his security, the 
                    visit passed without incident... 
 
Without incident? TOM chuckles to himself as his phone rings. 
He s nervous. He answers-without speaking- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (V.O.) 
          So here s my question. Whatever happened to the 
           nee naw  sound? It was cute. Quaint. Sort of 
          urgent. Then it s like one day you just replaced 
          all your emergency service sirens with American 
        ones. It s a shame. Before you know it you ll have 
                    guns for sale in Marks & Spencer. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Thank you for your concern. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (V.O.) 
                                You re still up. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    So are you. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                I can never sleep after an operation. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    Me neither. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
            You wanna come over and meet my friend Jim? 
 
TOM considers this for a second. 
 
INT. CHRISTINE S FLAT - NIGHT 2. 2200 
 
CHRISTINE s place is... pretty damn cool. Not soulless Tessa 
cool, but - just funky. Like her. 
 
TOM and CHRISTINE have drunk some JIM BEAM and it s suiting 
them just fine. TV s on with news analysis of the trip (leave 
for v/o cover a la Drop The Dead Donkey). 
 
                                        TOM 
                            You were heavy handed. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          She put your life in danger, Tom. She put the 



 69                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 70 

                          President s life in danger. 
                                        (beat) 
                                    I m empty. 
 
She dangles her glass. TOM takes the cue and walks over to her 
drinks cabinet. 
 
Something in CHRISTINE s eyes show worry. We see what she sees 
- a US Government folder on the drinks cabinet. She forgot to 
tidy it away. 
 
CHRISTINE gets up to join TOM before he sees the document. But 
he s seen it. And it says  LIBYA . 
 
That s all he needs to know. He reaches for it - but CHRISTINE 
grabs it- 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
        Don t make me wrestle you for it. I don t want to 
                                  embarrass you. 
 
TOM stands - for a moment we think there might be a tussle. 
Let s be honest... We all want a tussle. But TOM sits back 
down, heavily. A little drunk, very tired. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  So you lied. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  What else did you expect? The truth? 
                                    (eyes him) 
                      Is this a loss of faith Tom? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Of course not. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
        Dostoevski. Russian writer guy. Wrote a book about 
        a man who told the truth all the time. Know what 
                          he called it? The Idiot. 
 
TOM chuckles hard. CHRISTINE enjoys making him laugh. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
          You didn t wrestle me for it very much did you? 
 
TOM shrugs. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (cont d) 
                      What do you know that I don t? 
 
Hello. Something s occurred here. Between them. 
 


 70                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 6 Page 71 

                                        TOM 
                                Lots of things. 
 
We hold on the look. We hear the voice of the PM from the TV. 
As he speaks, CHRISTINE and TOM move closer together. 
 
                                TONY BLAIR V.O. 
            My talks with the President were, as ever, 
              constructive, enlightening, and to my mind, 
          indicative of the ever-closer bonds between our 
                                two countries... 
 
Both wait for the other to make a play. Someone is going to 
have to make the first move. A pre-emptive strike... 
 
                          TONY BLAIR V.O. (cont d) 
            ...and the Special Relationship that exists 
                                  between them. 
 
CHRISTINE sighs, grabs TOM s shirt and pulls him to her - 
 
FADE OUT. 
 
END OF EPISODE 






























 71