 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

                              Series Two 

 

                          Episode Eight 

 

                                        By 

 

                          Steve Bailie 

                                                     Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 1 

INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 0. 2245 
 
A burst of static, V.T. tracking... and then we see - 
 
DV SHOT: ERIC WOODS. Early 20 s, casually dressed. Bruised 
face. Smoking nervously. He hiccups. A little pissed. WOODS 
flicks his eyes between the camera and whoever s behind it, 
waiting for his cue as we hear - 
 
                          MILITARY POLICEMAN (V.O.) 
        ...a charge of fighting contrary to Section 43A of 
        the Army Act. Prisoner Corporal Eric Woods wishes 
                    to make an additional statement. 
 
And now we see where WOODS is. Two more people in the shadows, 
one operating a tripod mounted videocamera. WOODS speaks part 
to their camera, part to them. 
 
                                        WOODS 
        I want to tell you people in the national security 
        game about a problem at the heart of the British 
                      Army. You have an enemy within. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 0. 2245 
 
ZOE and DANNY. Half-heartedly playing backgammon on a near 
empty Grid. Filing cabinet bottle of vodka on the go. 
 
And half-watching a nearby T.V. - late night news show. ON 
T.V.: Stock footage - picketing Tube workers. 
 
                                    T.V. (V.O.) 
                ... the latest 24-hour strike on London 
          Underground started at 8 p.m. tonight, increasing 
        pressure on the government to find a solution for 
              what is now looking like a new Winter of 
              Discontent, unparalleled since 1979. Shadow 
                  Cabinet spokesman Charles Lindsay - 
 
                        DANNY (re: Charles Lindsay) 
            Isn t he the man who had the fling with the 
                                      guy...? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Who knew the girl who sold the thing? Yep. 
 
INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 0. 2245 
 
WOODS lights another cigarette. 
 
                                        WOODS 
          I can name the man who poses the single biggest 



 1                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 2 

            threat the British Army is currently facing. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT O. 2246 
 
HARRY appears behind ZOE and DANNY. Overcoat on, briefcase in 
hand, leaving for the night. 
 
ON T.V.: Footage of Tony Blair meeting & greeting... 
 
                                    T.V. (V.O.) 
          ... yet we live with the irony that this Labour 
                government may surpass even Thatcher s in 
                          neutralising the Unions - 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      Don t you have homes to go to? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                  Tube strike. It s raining. No cabs. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We train you to be resourceful. I m sure you ll 
                                    find a way. 
 
                              DANNY (hopefully) 
        Maybe we could book out a pool car on strike days? 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Operational purposes only, I m afraid. Even then 
          you have to pay the congestion charge yourself. 
 
INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT O. 2246 
 
                                        WOODS 
          The man who rank-and-file Army think walks on 
                                water. (a beat) 
                              Major Samuel Curtis. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 0. 2246 
 
HARRY opens his briefcase as ZOE pulls on her coat. 
 
                                        HARRY 
              I can provide you with specially designed 
            waterproofing equipment. Standard field officer 
                                        issue. 
 
An... umbrella. HARRY hands it to a disappointed DANNY. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                        You push this button here - 
 



 2                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 3 

ZOE still has one eye on the T.V. Stock footage of various 
picket lines. 
 
                                    T.V. (V.O.) 
          Postmen. Teachers. Council workers. Air traffic 
        controllers. Railway staff. Firemen. The country s 
            infrastructure buckling while Downing Street is 
              focused on events on the world stage. The 
            government must be asking itself - what next? 
 
INT. POLICE INTERVIEW ROOM - NIGHT 0. 2247 
 
                                        WOODS 
            Major Curtis is planning industrial action. A 
                              laying down of arms. 
                          (he kills his cigarette) 
        This government is about to face a mutiny from the 
                                  British Army. 
 
A beat - V.T. cuts out in a burst of static. WOODS - out of 
D.V. shot - looks up at his unseen cameraman. 
 
                            WOODS (CONT D) (grins) 
                                  How was that? 
 
He stands up and strides - unchecked - out of the interview 
room. 
 
TITLES 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 1. 0800 
 
HARRY striding through the Grid. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Meeting! 
 
CAPTION: Two weeks later 
 
ZOE, DANNY, MALCOLM, RUTH - all at their stations, gathering 
paperwork and coffee mugs. RUTH S monitor bleeps - 1 New E-
mail. From personnel@gchq.gov.uk. Re: Your secondment with 
M.I.5. She opens it hastily as the others head for the meeting 
room. 
 
RUTH s MONITOR: Her eyes - and ours - snap to one sentence - 
 ...decision will be made within 7 days, after which time you 
may be returned to GCHQ.  
 
RUTH S face falls. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 1. 0800 
 


 3                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 4 

HARRY, DANNY, ZOE and MALCOLM. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        What s happening today in the wonderful world of 
                                      espionage? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Tube dispute is ongoing. Our people inside the RMT 
        and TGWU say they re about to get back in the ring 
              again, possible wildcat action on the way. 
 
RUTH stumbles through the door, arms full of paper... 
 
                                HARRY (to RUTH) 
                        What s the headline intel? 
 
She dumps the paperwork on the desk. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          I ve only had time to check the overnight Grade 
        One headers. There s an avalanche coming in from 
                              our union sources. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Almost fifty agents in key sectors now, all saying 
                                the same thing. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    Specifically? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            While the government s got its back turned on 
              domestic issues, the unions are gathering 
                                      strength. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Stay on it. Keeping this country s infrastructure 
                working is part of defending the realm. 
                                (turns to DANNY) 
                        Next. How s Tom getting on? 
 
EXT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. RANGES - DAY 1. 0805 
 
TOM QUINN - dressed in full British Army khaki - BANG! BANG!! 
BANG!!! - crouches behind a wall as the sound of gunfire 
explodes overhead. 
 
Beside TOM, a young soldier - BRYANT, early 20 s. Both men 
carrying standard issue SA 80 rifles. 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                                  Bloody Hell! 
 


 4                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 5 

                                        TOM 
                    They re flanking us to the left. 
 
Next to BRYANT, there s a gap in the wall. Another RATTLE OF 
GUNFIRE as an unseen enemy lays fire down the gap. TOM points 
beyond it. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
            Cross the gap. I m right behind you. Fire and 
              manoeuvre, fire and manoeuvre - Ready? Go! 
 
BRYANT takes a breath, starts to move to his left towards the 
new cover - 
 
The rapid rattle of more gunfire - 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                                      Shit! - 
 
He raises his rifle - preparing to return fire - puts it to 
his left shoulder - 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Wait! 
 
And as BRYANT steps into the open, weapon aimed - 
 
TOM lunges at him. Slaps the barrel of BRYANT s rifle 
downwards - 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                        No. 
 
A whistle sounds - 
 
                                  CURTIS (O.S.) 
                                      Ceasefire! 
 
CAPTION: Battle Training Ranges, Stonefield Barracks, near 
London. 
 
And those of you who know about these things will recognise 
the distinctive yellow Blank Firing Attachments on the rifle 
barrel that indicates... they re not using live ammo. 
 
TOM and BRYANT turn to look at MAJOR SAM CURTIS - striding 
towards them. 
 
TOM salutes CURTIS; BRYANT stands to attention holding his 
rifle. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                                Everyone alright? 


 5                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 6 

 
                                        TOM 
                                    Yes, sir. 
 
CURTIS holds out his hand. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                      Weapon. 
 
BRYANT clears the breech on his rifle, thumbs on the safety 
catch, hands it over. 
 
CURTIS takes the weapon, holds it at arms length. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                              Never. Ever. Forget. 
 
He squeezes the trigger. A burst of semi-automatic fire - 
The rifles cocking-handle jerks backwards and forwards, 
rapidly ejecting a stream of metal bullet casings. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
          The SA 80 individual weapon cannot, under any 
          circumstances, be fired from the left shoulder. Do 
          so - the cocking-handle will break your jaw and 
          you ll get a faceful of red hot metal casings. 
                    Even when you re firing blanks. 
 
He safeties the weapon, hands it TOM. 
 
                        CURTIS (CONT D) (to BRYANT) 
        I m afraid that s your standard issue British Army 
                          rifle. Learn to love it. 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                              Yes, Major Curtis. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          Not your fault. You didn t design the bastard. 
 
He turns to TOM. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            David, end ex. Return your men to barracks. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Sir. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              S ant Major Baker! 
 
BAKER - a tough-looking N.C.O. in his late 30 s. 
 


 6                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 7 

                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                      Stand the rest of the men down. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. OFFICERS  QUARTERS - DAY 1. 0810 
 
TOM walks down the corridor to his own room. Checks the door - 
a hair pasted across the door and its  frame. It s 
undisturbed. All clear. 
 
                                  DANNY (V.O.) 
        Tom has been contacting us daily at 0700 and 2300 
          hours without fail. Curtis  Company are next in 
            line for overseas deployment as required, so 
                      they re on full time exercise. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. GRID - DAY 1. 0810 
 
DANNY points a remote at the monitor. Click. A photograph of a 
flyer appears on the vid-screen. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        There are some morale problems on base. Tom photo-
          messaged this over from his mobile last night. 
                                  (reads aloud) 
         Fancy spending nine months away from home on crap 
          pay, provide strike cover for Firemen earning 
        twice as much money for six months work, and face 
        the possibility of being killed for a country full 
        of greedy, pathetic and selfish individuals? Sign 
                  below. Army - Be Depressed.    
 
                                        ZOE 
                                    Fair point. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                Satire never brought a country down.  
 
                                        DANNY 
        Curtis is a soldier s soldier. He d rather be in 
        the company of his men than sitting behind a desk. 
          He takes full part in all exercises. But Woods, 
        our whistleblower Corporal - codename Nightingale 
        - has come up with no hard evidence, no proof that 
                        Curtis is planning mutiny. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                      We could be wasting our time. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            No strike cover for industrial disputes. No 
            security back-up if there s a major terrorist 
            incident. Britain s interests overseas put in 
        severe jeopardy. Every tinpot General from Somalia 


 7                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 8 

        to poor sad little North Korea and all points in 
              between gloating on CNN. And the special 
                  relationship with our cousins severely 
          embarrassed. Until we know for sure? - it s not 
                                  time wasted. 
 
ZOE holds up a book  Escape from Iraq  by Soldier C. Photo of 
CURTIS on the cover, but with his eyes concealed behind a 
heavy black strip. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Sam Curtis led five men across 200 miles of Iraqi 
          desert in 1991, and was the subject of a best-
                    selling account of the operation. 
                              (sets the book down) 
        Eric Woods glassed a fireman in a pub then put a 
            spotlight on Curtis in a bid for leniency. He 
          could be playing us. Maybe we turn this over to 
                              Army Intelligence... 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Curtis  reputation precedes him throughout the 
        country. It d be like asking the Vatican to prove 
        Mary wasn t a virgin.  Incitement to disaffect  is 
          a ballchopper charge under the Army Act. But Chief 
              of Defence Staff is adamant this is our 
          jurisdiction. If Curtis is guilty, we need to stop 
                                        him. 
                                    (he stands) 
                              Thank you, everyone. 
 
DANNY and ZOE walk out side-by-side. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        What if we went on strike? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        If the Army took industrial action it d be pretty 
            damn obvious once the Iraqi Republican Guard 
          started marching down Whitehall. If we went on 
                            strike - who d notice? 
 
INT. CORRIDOR - BARRACKS - DAY 1. 1600 
 
TOM walking down the corridor. A Company noticeboard displays 
various formal and informal notices - including the mock  Be 
Depressed  flyer. Someone s written  We are!  on the bottom. 
TOM looks around - no-one watching. He takes a RED THUMB TACK 
from his pocket, sticks it in a corner of the board. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. LANGUAGE LAB - NIGHT 1. 2000 
 



 8                                                    Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 9 

It s dark. But we can make out desks, tape machines, labelled 
boxes of language courses. 
 
The door cracks open - CORPORAL WOODS peers round nervously. 
Steps inside. 
 
Click. A table lamp comes on at the far end of the room. TOM 
sitting at a desk in a pool of light. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  You re late. 
 
                                        WOODS 
                        Poker game. I won a big pot. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Three more minutes, I d have assumed you were 
                    compromised. Pulled the operation. 
 
                                        WOODS 
                  Yeah, well - you didn t and I m not. 
                          (he sits, looks around) 
          This ain t the best place to meet. No-one would 
          believe I d be in here of an evening. We don t 
                        really use the language lab. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    That s why it s a safe location. 
 
He gestures at a set of Arabic language tapes. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
            If I was going on one of Her Majesty s cheap 
          camping trips I d be brushing up. Phrases like 
         thank you, sir, for letting me travel in the boot 
              of your car  could be all the rage soon. 
 
                                        WOODS 
        I d rather train to kill the bastards than talk to 
                                        them. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Yes. That s why we have wars. 
 
TOM doesn t much like this man. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT'D) 
        I ve been here two weeks and Curtis has said half 
          a dozen words to me. You run his diary, you need 
                        to push me in front of him. 
 
WOODS glances at the door. Nervous. 
 


 9                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 10 

                                        WOODS 
          There s movement. Curtis is reassembling his old 
            team. The crew from Desert Storm. S ant-Major 
            Baker s only the first one. Two more men are 
                shipping in tomorrow, Wallace and Parks. 
 
                                        TOM 
                          Why s that significant? 
 
                                        WOODS 
            The bonds that men forge in battle are the 
            strongest you ll find. Curtis trusts them. He 
          can t lead an industrial action solo - he needs 
          men beneath him to spread it through the ranks. 
                          (he heads for the door) 
                Curtis is moving his pieces into place. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 2030 
 
DANNY S station. ZOE, RUTH, MALCOLM and SAM gathered round. A 
sense of conspiracy. DANNY s consulting SAM. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    How many officers are up for it? 
 
                                        SAM 
                                      Nineteen. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                      Budget? 
 
She glances at a scrap of paper. 
 
                                        SAM 
                                One twenty five. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            One twenty five? Is that it? We can t afford 
                      something like this on only... 
                                    (calculates) 
                          ... six fifty an officer. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                        Six fifty seven, actually. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    What about time, date, location? 
 
                                        SAM 
        1900 hours, 21st - budget means we ll have to do 
                                    it at home. 
 



 10                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 11 

                                        DANNY 
          How s the transport infrastructure going to be 
                                    that night? 
 
                                        ZOE 
          There are no Tube strikes announced, if that s 
                                  what you mean. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                      Good, good... and we re sure - 
 
He glances over at HARRY, on the phone in his office. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
                  - we re sure Harry suspects nothing? 
 
                                  ZOE (Big sigh) 
            For God s sake, Danny, we re not trying to 
          infiltrate Baghdad. It s just a birthday party. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. TOM S ROOM - NIGHT 1. 2245 
 
TOM locks the door, draws the curtains. Pulls a cellular phone 
from his pocket. Hits a button. The phone s LCD screen shows a 
funky graphic - 
 
Sweep Activated - a circular series of dots on the screen 
starts sweeping through a 360-degree clockwise movement. 
 
TOM takes the phone in hand, starts running it over the room s 
surfaces and fixtures. The table-lamp. Picture on the wall. 
Overhead light. Bedframe. 
 
Sweeping for bugs. The phone bleeps happily - No Bugs 
detected. 
 
- TOM... thinking for a moment... then hits another button on 
his phone. A microphone symbol appears, along with the word 
Recording. He lifts the phone to speak - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID/STONEFIELD BARRACKS. TOM S ROOM 
(SPLIT SCREEN) - NIGHT 1. 2259 
 
- SAM in front of her computer monitor. DANNY, ZOE, HARRY and 
MALCOLM all gathered round. 
 
- On SAM s monitor, a three-dimensional image - a blip 
undulating from left to right like a small wave. 
 
- A digital clock icon in one corner of her screen... 
22:59:53... 22:59:54... 
 
- TOM presses a button. Transmit? Hits  Send . 


 11                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 12 

 
- SAM. And as the clock ticks to 23:00:00 - 
 
                                        SAM 
                He s bang on time every night. Watch. 
 
The blip undulating across her screen peaks vigorously, 
lancing up and down the screen from left to right. 
 
Out of SPLIT SCREEN: 
 
                                  SAM (CONT'D) 
                                That s so cool... 
 
MALCOLM can t resist... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        And yet so simple. Tom s phone allows him to sweep 
        for bugs then prerecord a message. Hits a button, 
                  the message is digitally compressed, 
          electronically scrambled, and transmitted in a 0.1 
                second burst. Impossible to intercept. 
 
SAM hits a button - a message on her computer -  
Decompressing... then TOM s message starts playback - 
soundwaves undulating on SAM s computer monitor. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
          Nightingale reports activity... Eagle One has two 
        men reporting for duty tomorrow, former colleagues 
                              from Desert Storm. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 2301 
 
HARRY, DANNY, ZOE, SAM and MALCOLM - all listening. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
        Request confirmation and any relevant background. 
                                      (a beat) 
            Face-to-face at blue location to discuss, 1100 
                                        hours. 
 
A beep as the message ends. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          What s the coefficient? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                Minus Six. He wants to meet at 5 a.m. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Is it just me, or does he sound a bit hacked off? 
 


 12                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 13 

                                        DANNY 
      He doesn t exactly look forward to his fortnight s 
        annual training with the SAS. I wouldn t say this 
                        is his dream assignment... 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Count yourself lucky it s only section heads who 
          have to train alongside the Regiment. Otherwise 
                              you d be in there. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  I could cope. 
 
ZOE looks skeptical. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          You in the Army? They don t do designer khaki. 
 
                                  HARRY (to ZOE) 
                    You go. Try cheer him up a bit. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 1. 2310 
 
DANNY working on his computer, ZOE alongside, pulling on her 
coat. An official-looking Ministry of Defence website on the 
monitor. As he speaks, computer files line up one-by-one, 
side-by-side, headshots and background data. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I ve accessed the MOD database for some background 
          on the five men Curtis led in and out of Iraq. 
                              Sergeant-Major Baker. 
 
BAKER S headshot on his monitor. Followed by: 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
        Sergeant Phillip Wallace and Corporal Harry Parks 
              - they re the men joining Curtis tomorrow. 
 
WALLACE and PARKS - mean-looking bastards. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Run me prints for Tom. 
 
DANNY hits a button - as the printer spews out 10 x 8 s of 
WALLACE and PARKS: 
 
                                        DANNY 
          The other two have since left the Army, William 
              Scobey, whereabouts unknown, last seen in a 
        homeless hostel 18 months ago; and Derek Hanson - 
                lives on a north London council estate. 
 


 13                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 14 

SCOBEY and HANSON S headshots up on the monitor. ZOE studies 
HANSON s headshot. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              He s worth a look. 
                              (checks her watch) 
                                      Great... 
                                      (weary) 
              ...time for three hours sleep before I go. 
 
She grabs WALLACE and PARKS  headshots, heads for the pods. 
 
EXT. LAY-BY - DAY 2. DAWN 
 
A countryside A-road. Parked in the lay-by, ZOE s car parked. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
                              I don t trust Woods. 
 
INT. CAR - NIGHT 1. DAWN 
 
ZOE and TOM in the front seats. Both with early morning 
weariness about them. TOM S studying head shots of WALLACE and 
PARKS. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              What s Harry saying? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                  Stay with it. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            Of course he does... 
 
ZOE hands a file over to TOM. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Correspondence from the Chief Of Defence Staff s 
        office. Curtis has written eighty-six letters over 
            a five year period - a litany of suggestions, 
          complaints and occasional sarcasm directed at the 
        military brass. Curtis has issues with everything 
          from personal kit to pensions. He argues a good 
                                        case. 
 
TOM flips through the file. 
 
                            TOM (reading a letter) 
                He s not wrong about the SA 80 rifle... 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Harry s adamant. A strike could spread throughout 



 14                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 15 

                              the Armed Forces. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Catastrophic in the current climate... I know. 
 
He hands the file back. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                        I reckon forty-eight hours. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                  What do you want me to say to Harry? 
 
                                        TOM 
                  That I m getting closer to Curtis. 
                        (then, a little sardonic...) 
                            And that I said hello. 
 
ZOE watches TOM step from the car. Knows he ain t happy. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 0705 
 
ZOE at her station, coffee in hand - RUTH passes by, drops a 
load of paperwork on ZOE s desk. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                Overnight intel. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          I m still in yesterday. Been up half the night. 
                  Don t you have top-sheet summaries? 
 
                                        RUTH 
            I can t analyse it all myself. You ll have to 
                                    cherry-pick. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                That s your job - 
 
                                        RUTH 
                            Not for much longer. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        What? 
 
RUTH points at the top sheet of paper in the new batch. We 
might just glimpse a vaguely pornographic surveillance photo. 
 
                            RUTH (brave smile...) 
          Look at that. Of all government ministers I d 
        never have made him for a leather queen. No wonder 
            he hasn t got time to sort out the unions. 
 


 15                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 16 

ZOE won t take the bait. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Ruth. What did you mean..? 
 
RUTH is about to speak - but HARRY S passing by - 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  How was Tom? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                      Grumpy. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    He ll live. 
 
EXT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. DAY 2. 0730 
 
Establishing shot. 
 
EXT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. RANGES - DAY 2. 0730 
 
TOM, BRYANT, WOODS and three other squaddies. All climbing 
into NBC overalls, BAKER watching, as they listen to - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                Close-quarter battle; escape and evasion; 
                resistance to interrogation - we will be 
          practising the basic drills until we can do them 
          in the dark, under fire and on our chin-straps. 
                                (looks at BAKER) 
            Distribute the equipment please, Lieutenant. 
 
BAKER opens a kitbag. Inside - S10 Respirator gas-masks. He 
starts removing them as CURTIS continues - 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        Today we are going to stick you in that building - 
 
A small, featureless breezeblock construction. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        - and we are going to pump tear gas inside. By the 
        end of the day I want you in your Noddy suits and 
          respirators within nine seconds of a gas alert. 
 
Everyone listening carefully to CURTIS. So no-one notices as 
TOM takes a couple of gas masks from BAKER and - 
 
Click. Opens a lock-knife. Makes a swift cut on the strap of 
one of the gas-masks. Leaves it hanging by a small thread of 
rubber. Passes the mask on to BRYANT. 
 


 16                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 17 

                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            If you don t, you ll end up in tears because 
          S ant-Major Baker will put his toe so far up your 
        arse at high speed that you will be able to chew 
                            his toenails for him. 
 
A gentle ripple of amusement passes through the unit. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
          War is shit. Anyone who tells you otherwise has 
        never been in one. Train hard, fight easy. Train 
                        easy, fight hard - and die. 
 
TOM watches the unit hang on CURTIS  words. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. MEETING ROOM - DAY 2. 0745 
 
RUTH has been confiding in ZOE. 
 
                                ZOE (reassuring) 
          Harry s no fool. You re good. He ll want to keep 
                                    you here. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        God I hope so. I don t want to go back to G.C.H.Q. 
        - too many bloody mathematicians for one thing - 
 
DANNY comes in through the doors - file in hand, M.O.D. 
lettering and photo of DEREK HANSON both prominent on it. 
 
                                DANNY (reading) 
          Hanson quit the Army three years ago. Claiming 
          benefits ever since. Why hasn t he re-enlisted? 
          The Army offer good incentives for experienced 
                          soldiers to join up again. 
 
Oblivious to the counselling ZOE was giving RUTH. 
 
                                        RUTH 
          Well... I ll just go read a North Korea Evening 
                              News or something... 
 
She heads off, leaving her paperwork on the table. ZOE 
eyeballs DANNY. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          For a man whose job is all about observation, 
          perception and intelligence, you just failed on 
                              all three counts. 
 
DANNY S face - what ve I done? 
 



 17                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 18 

ZOE divides the pile of reports that RUTH left on the table 
into two stacks, slides one over to DANNY. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        Split this with me. Quick scan. Ten minutes tops. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. N.B.C. CHAMBER - DAY 2. 0800 
 
TOM following BRYANT and the other soldiers including WOODS 
into a bare room, wearing their overalls, gas-masks in hand. A 
SUPERVISOR already there and masked up. 
 
A plate glass window in the room looks into a viewing gallery. 
CURTIS and BAKER behind the glass. 
 
BAKER addresses the unit over a microphone. 
 
                                        BAKER 
                        Be in time, mask in nine. 
 
He nods to the SUPERVISOR, who lights half-a-dozen TABLETS 
sitting on oil drums tablets to start releasing tear gas into 
the chamber. 
 
The unit wait nervously. TOM alert. 
 
Then... as gas starts to fill the room... all react as drilled 
- eyes shut. Bend forward. Blow out hard. 
 
                                        ALL 
                                  Gas, gas, gas! 
 
TOM slides his respirator over his head - 
 
BRYANT fumbling with his - 
 
TOM has his mask in place, checks the seal. Can see BRYANT 
struggling, fumbling his mask on and - 
 
The strap on BRYANT S mask snaps. 
 
The room is filling with gas - like smoke - BRYANT S eyes 
stinging - 
 
                                        BRYANT 
                                Bloody Hell...! 
 
A panicked breath - and he collapses. 
 
TOM moves fast. Grabs BRYANT, drags him towards the door - 
kicks it opens, hauls BRYANT outside. 
 



 18                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 19 

                                        TOM 
                      Breathe... breathe normally... 
 
CURTIS and BAKER watching closely... 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                                ...it s OK now... 
 
BRYANT S retching... finally catches a good lungful of oxygen. 
 
TOM turns his head - CURTIS watching him closely. Which is 
exactly what TOM wants. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 2. CONTINUOUS. 
 
RUTH in front of HARRY s desk. Upset. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        - I m good at my job. Overworked, but bloody good 
                                          - 
 
                                        HARRY 
                    No decision has been made yet - 
 
ZOE bursts in, sheet of paper in hand - 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Our R.M.T. source says there ll be a wildcat 
                  strike on West Midlands rail-lines. 
                              (checks her watch) 
                      In the next thirty minutes... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            What do they want now? 
 
                                        ZOE 
            That s not the issue. A consignment of spent 
        nuclear fuel was on its way to Dover by rail. It s 
              about to grind to a halt, sitting in open 
                                    countryside. 
 
                      HARRY (a day at the office...) 
        Liaise with the Nuclear Authority. Get it moving 
                                        again. 
 
ZOE s picked up on the vibe between RUTH and HARRY. 
 
                                  ZOE (to RUTH) 
                            Good intel, thank you. 
 
RUTH smiles - pleased. HARRY nods at her - noted. As ZOE and 
RUTH head for the door - 
 


 19                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 20 

                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        Got any railway timetables in your vast databank? 
 
EXT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. RANGES - DAY 2. 0830 
 
Outside the N.B.C. training building. BRYANT is just about 
recovered. CURTIS pats him on the shoulder, reassuring. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        You ll be OK. I inhaled the equivalent of a duty-
        free carton of B & H first time I tried to put on 
                                    a respirator. 
                                  (turns to TOM) 
                                Good job, David. 
 
                                        TOM 
              With all due respect, Major - the Company 
                        quartermaster should be shot. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                Accidents happen. 
 
                                        TOM 
              That s not good enough. Our equipment s a 
        disgrace. Rifles spitting cartridges in your face, 
                gas-masks falling apart in your hands - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Thank you, David. Your comments are noted. 
 
TOM trying to push CURTIS  buttons... 
 
                                        TOM 
                    Something should be done about it. 
 
CURTIS can t let a subordinate talk to him this way. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                  That s enough, Lieutenant. Right    
                                      (to all) 
                              - we do it again. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1100 
 
DANNY, ZOE, HARRY. They re studying surveillance photos of 
DEREK HANSON. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Go talk to Hanson. Find out if he s joining his 
        former colleagues for the class reunion, if not - 
                                      why not? 
                                  (as he goes) 
                  Try not to spend all day in the pub. 


 20                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 21 

 
SAM approaches - hands DANNY a business card. On it - a 
magazine-type logo,  Today s Soldier . Underneath -  Rob 
Simkins - Staff Writer . 
 
                                        SAM 
                                    How s that? 
 
He glances at it, slips it in his breast pocket. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              Perfect. Thank you. 
 
                                  SAM (pleased) 
                                All my own work. 
 
SAM leaves, happily. DANNY pulls on his coat as he watches her 
go. ZOE watches DANNY. 
 
                        ZOE (mildly exasperated...) 
                        Why don t you just ask her? 
 
                                DANNY (innocent) 
                                  Ask her what? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        It s allowed, you know. You ve read the rule book. 
              Inter-office dating is considered less of a 
                                  security risk. 
                              (off DANNY S look) 
                          I m just trying to help. 
                        (a beat - slightly barbed) 
                  Tom and Harry would be very proud. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    I don t see it as a career move. 
 
DANNY heads for the pods. ZOE won t leave it, follows - 
 
                                        ZOE 
            Of course you d have to fill out the S-24. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                Not the S-24... 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        They take it very seriously. 
 
                        DANNY (steps into the pod) 
            Fine. I fill out an S-24 form describing my 
          feelings for a colleague - then what happens to 
                                        it? 
 


 21                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 22 

                                        ZOE 
          You give copies to Harry and Tom, they have a 
            bloody good laugh, file it - you and Sam are 
                      cleared for intimate relations. 
 
DANNY pulls a face - very funny - as the pod closes. 
 
INT. PUB - DAY 2. 1130 
 
A dingy inner-city drinking hole, a few dingy inner-city 
drinkers. Sitting alone at a corner table - 
 
DEREK HANSON. Late 30 s - a drinker, ravaged face and shaky 
hands. HANSON s watching a TV above the bar, near-empty pint 
in hand. 
 
Another full pint slides in front of him. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                        Hello. 
 
HANSON looks at DANNY suspiciously. Checks over DANNY s 
shoulder, looks around the pub. Back to DANNY. 
 
                                        HANSON 
          Whatever it is, the answer s no. But thanks for 
                                    the drink. 
 
He drains half the glass in one swallow. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Thank you. I d love to sit down. 
 
Takes a seat opposite HANSON, who studies him closely. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
                            My name s Rob Simkins. 
 
He hands over the business card SAM prepared. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT D) 
            I m writing an article for  Today s Soldier  
            magazine. What ex-servicemen have done since 
                                leaving the Army. 
 
                                        HANSON 
                                    Piss off. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I know who you are Mr Hanson and I know what 
        you ve been through. I read the Sam Curtis book - 
 



 22                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 23 

                                        HANSON 
                                  That bollox... 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    I thought Curtis was your friend? 
 
HANSON leans over the table, aggressively. 
 
                                        HANSON 
        Curtis should never have told his story. Put all 
                          of us in the spotlight. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          He gave you pseudonyms. 
 
HANSON looks at him blearily. 
 
                                        HANSON 
          Bugger all good that did. You re a journalist. 
            You re here talking to me about it ten years 
                                        later. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1135 
 
RUTH, MALCOLM, SAM, N.S.E. s listening as ZOE debriefs. The 
Grid monitors show a digitised map of the U.K. as she speaks. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        The Nuclear Authority has an off-the-shelf plan to 
          transport the spent nuke fuel by road on a low-
              loader, accompanied by its  own security 
            personnel. Convoy is codenamed  The Stick . 
 
The digitised map lights up to show the convoy s route. M6 to 
M1 to M25, circle London, on down to Dover. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        Departs 10pm tonight, arrives Dover 6pm tomorrow. 
          We re tasked with maintaining a rolling threat 
          assessment. This is highly irradiated uranium - 
          travelling halfway across the country. If there s 
      so much as a drawing-pin on the inside lane of the 
                      M25, I want to know about it. 
                                    (to RUTH) 
                              You re the overseer. 
                              (to everyone else) 
          Ruth will process relevant reports as they come 
                                        in. 
 
RUTH s pleased. This is a big day out for her. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 



 23                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 24 

        This might sound like a routine baby-sitting job, 
        but something as simple as a puncture could mean 
                      we all have a really bad day. 
 
Takes RUTH to one side. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
        Chance to make yourself indispensable in Harry s 
                                      eyes... 
 
RUTH S up for it. 
 
INT. PUB - DAY 2. 1145 
 
HANSON takes another pint off DANNY. 
 
                                        HANSON 
              I ve no idea where Scobey is. Lost touch. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Everyone has. He was in a hostel two years ago, 
                              since then, nothing. 
 
                                        HANSON 
            There you go. Lots of ex-servicemen end up 
          sleeping rough. Meantime we provide hotels for 
        asylum seekers. Still... can t all be the subject 
                      of bestseller books, can we? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          Why not? Didn t you ever think of looking for a 
              ghost-writer, tell your side of the story? 
 
HANSON s eyes flash. 
 
                                        HANSON 
        Official Secrets Act, son. I signed it, and I take 
              it very seriously. Something people don t 
                              understand anymore. 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I understand it. Come across it all the time in 
                              this line of work. 
 
                                        HANSON 
        Well you ve just run into it again. That s why I 
        don t talk about Iraq. And Curtis shouldn t have 
                                      either. 
 
                                        DANNY 
            Everyone else seems to think Sam Curtis is a 
                                      legend. 
 


 24                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 25 

                                        HANSON 
                          In his own mirror, sure. 
                                (he leans close) 
        I passed S.A.S. selection. They binned me when the 
        book came out. You can t have a covert ops soldier 
        whose face is on the front page of every Western 
                  newspaper. Curtis ruined my career. 
                        (a gloomy, silent beat...) 
        I told him. I m a soldier, not a bloody chauffeur. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                              What do you mean? 
 
HANSON - did he just say too much? 
 
                                        HANSON 
                                  Excuse me... 
 
He stands, heads towards the Gents. Little unsteady. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CURTIS  OFFICE - DAY 2. 1145 
 
Photos on the walls, books, citations - it s all a bit of a 
shrine. To CURTIS. 
 
He s at a desk, reading a file. A headshot of TOM in uniform 
clipped to the front. BAKER sits opposite. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Operational tours in Bosnia, Sierra Leone and 
                                      Belfast... 
 
ANGLE ON: WOODS - lurking outside the doorway. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT'D) 
                              ... clean progress. 
                              (looks up at BAKER) 
          Mr. Getty seems extremely capable. I d like to 
            know more. Dig deeper. Put Wallace on to it. 
                      (then, over BAKER s shoulder) 
                      Corporal Woods. Do you need me? 
 
WOODS - dammit. Steps round the doorway. 
 
                                        WOODS 
                Sorry, sir. Didn t want to interrupt. 
                            (he holds out a file) 
                              Today s op reports. 
 
CURTIS holds his gaze as he takes the file. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                    You can go. 


 25                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 26 

 
Shifts his gaze to BAKER as WOODS leaves. 
 
INT. PUB. GENTS - DAY 2. 1146 
 
DANNY alone at the pub table. Looks over towards the Gents. 
Looks around the pub. No-one taking any notice of him. He 
heads to the Gents. 
 
As he rounds the corner - 
 
HANSON S there. Grabs DANNY S shoulders, slams him against the 
wall. 
 
                                  HANSON (shaky) 
            You re green slime, aren t you? Army spook? 
 
DANNY - keeps it cool but firm. Swipes HANSON s hands away. 
HANSON eases off. 
 
                                HANSON (CONT D) 
                                  Who are you? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I ve also signed the Act. All I can tell you - 
          it s important. And I think we re on the same 
                                        side. 
 
HANSON stares at him... deciding... 
 
                                        HANSON 
        Baker came to see me six months ago. Said Curtis 
        wanted to give me a lead on some sort of driving 
          job. I told him to stuff it. He was looking for 
        Scobey as well. I don t know why. I didn t want to 
            know why. But I believe Curtis was trying to 
              recruit his own little squad of wild geese. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                    For what? 
 
                                        HANSON 
        No idea. But no matter what he says, you can bet 
            it ll be for the greater glory of Sam Curtis. 
 
INT/EXT. THE GRID/STREET - DAY 2. 1150 
 
SAM waves a phone at ZOE. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          CIA are looking for Tom. 
 
ZOE punches a button on her phone, picks up the call. 


 26                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 27 

 
                                        ZOE 
        Hi. It s Zoe. Tom s on operation. I m the acting 
                                  CIA liaison. 
 
INTERCUT WITH CHRISTINE - on the street, on her mobile. 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                  I thought he d been a bit... quiet. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        Is there anything I can do? 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                      No, no. 
                                      (a beat) 
                          How long s he away for? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                              Oh... you know... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
          Quite. Well... if you speak to him - tell him I 
                                    said hello. 
 
EXT. COUNTRY HOUSE - DAY 2. 1245 
 
Pleasant looking detached house in the Home Counties. SFX: 
Doorbell. 
 
INT./EXT. COUNTRY HOUSE - DAY 2. 1245 
 
MR. GETTY (60 s) opens the front door to a face we might 
recognise from his earlier headshots: 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                    Mr. Getty? 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
                                        Yes? 
 
                          WALLACE (friendly smile) 
        I m an old friend of David s. We served in Belfast 
          together. Promised him I d stop by and say hello 
                  if I was ever in the neighbourhood. 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
                Oh dear. I m afraid David isn t here. 
 
WALLACE glances over the MR. GETTY s shoulder. A framed 
portrait on a hallway table beside the front door. MR. GETTY, 
a woman in her 60 s... and TOM. In Army uniform. 
 


 27                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 28 

                                      WALLACE 
                  That s a shame. Not overseas is he? 
 
                                    MR. GETTY 
        No, he s on exercise in the U.K. If you d like to 
            leave me your details I ll pass them along. 
 
INT. COUNTRY HOUSE. DAY 2. 12.47 
 
MR. GETTY watches as WALLACE s car heads off down the 
driveway. Reaches for the phone, dials a number. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 2. 1248 
 
DANNY and HARRY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            You re sure it s not hearsay? A drunk with a 
                      grudge jumping to conclusions? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          I think Hanson s a principled ex-soldier turning 
                        down under-the-table offers. 
 
Nearby - RUTH shoves another piece of paper at ZOE. 
 
Minor complication... 
 
ZOE scans the document, groans, heads for HARRY and DANNY. 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Our source in the TGWU says dockers will come out 
        in sympathy with the RMT. If Dover shuts down, we 
          have the same problem - a batch of uranium left 
                      sitting where it shouldn t be. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    How long? 
 
                                        ZOE 
        Best guess is 24 hours earliest. I m pushing all 
            our other agents. This could be co-ordinated 
          nationwide action across a range of industries... 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Hassle the Nuclear Authority. Stress to them the 
                urgency of getting that convoy moving. 
 
He eyeballs ZOE. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
          We re into Head of Section territory. In Tom s 
                  absence - I want you to run this op. 


 28                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 29 

 
ZOE - pleased. Heads for the nearest phone. 
 
SAM S in front of HARRY now. 
 
                                        SAM 
            Someone just took an eyeball at Tom s legend. 
                Fitted Phillip Wallace s description. 
 
She shows them WALLACE s 10  x 8 . 
 
                                        DANNY 
            I think Derek Hanson was telling me the truth 
                                        today. 
 
                                HARRY (to DANNY) 
                                    Update Tom. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CURTIS  QUARTERS - NIGHT 2. 1930 
 
BAKER on a laptop, CURTIS pouring drinks. On the laptop 
screen, a database heading -  Army records index . 
 
TOM s file - as Lieutenant David Getty. 
 
                                        BAKER 
            It all stands up. Wallace took a look at his 
        parents and I ve cross-checked his records - they 
            even include a disciplinary charge... taking 
          stores abandoned by the enemy. He found an IRA 
        arms dump in Armagh four years ago. It included a 
        case of whiskey which ended up behind the bar in 
                          the Junior Ranks Mess... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                  Good for him. 
                                      (a beat) 
      He may be one of us. Tell him I d like to see him. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CURTIS  OFFICE - NIGHT 2. 2004 
 
CURTIS holding up a bottle of whiskey. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Thank you, sir. 
 
CURTIS pours whiskey. TOM is studying framed photos and 
portraits on the wall. He points at one. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
                  George Bingham; 3rd Earl of Lucan. 
 
                        CURTIS (hands TOM a drink) 


 29                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 30 

          Sent almost five hundred men into the valley of 
          death in the Charge of the Light Brigade. It s 
        there to remind me how easy it is for a soldier to 
                  be remembered for the wrong reasons. 
 
They sit down. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        Some of our boys... War is an adventure to them, 
          what they ve been waiting for after months of 
                        training. They have no idea. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    No-one does.  Til they re in one. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          A teenager signs up for the Army. He s spent his 
        whole life wearing trainers. Suddenly we give him 
          a dirty great pair of boots to wear. Usually he 
        gets the wrong size. Ends up buying his own on the 
                                  high street. 
 
                                        TOM 
      No good trying to turn a man into a soldier if you 
                        start off by crippling him. 
 
SFX: a cellular rings. CURTIS  mobile phone sits on the table. 
It s not the phone that s ringing. CURTIS reaches for his 
jacket hanging on the back of his chair. He pulls out another 
mobile from the pocket, presses a button to divert the call. 
He puts it back in his jacket pocket. 
 
TOM - noting both phones. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                Did you take part in Operation Fresco? 
 
                                        TOM 
        Yes. Just come back from six months in Belfast. I 
        was supposed to go on three weeks leave, but was 
        handed a Green Goddess instead. Still haven t made 
                                  up the leave. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        Try explaining to the junior ranks on twelve and a 
          half grand a year why they re covering for some 
              firefighters who earn nearly twice as much. 
 
                                        TOM 
                    You didn t agree with the strike? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        On the contrary. Firemen risk their lives. So do 


 30                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 31 

            we. How d you put a salary bracket on that? 
 
He pours another round of drinks. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
          I understand what you were saying about SA 80 s, 
                        gas-masks. You re not wrong. 
 
                                        TOM 
                      Can t you do anything about it? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I can only look after the men below me. I can t be 
                    responsible for the ones above me. 
 
                                        TOM 
      We all have to take it on trust our superiors know 
                              what they re doing. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2005 
 
DANNY, RUTH and SAM - all looking at a monitor overhead. Split 
screen on the monitor - on one side, the UK digitised map. On 
the other a CCTV feed showing the Stick. A low-loader with a 
container of spent nuclear fuel on the back, several escort 
vehicles around it. 
 
TWO DRIVERS stretching out before climbing into the truck. One 
of them (SCOBEY) just finishing a mobile phone call, the other 
chivvying him along. 
 
                                        SAM 
            They re about ready to go. Nuclear Authority 
              Central Control have been assigned callsign 
                                       Polestar.  
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CURTIS  OFFICE - NIGHT 2. 2006 
 
TOM and CURTIS more relaxed, two or three drinks in. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        That s the irony in defending democracy. You do it 
          for peanuts and your equipment is made by the 
          cheapest bidder. Belfast. You were at Blackwood 
                                      barracks? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Yes... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              Sullen part of town. 
 



 31                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 32 

                                        TOM 
        Two communities bashing up against each other, a 
          Brit base right in the middle? Pretty vicious, 
                                        yes. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
              Your O.C. there was Tim Darbyshire, right? 
 
TOM - alert. Where s this going...? 
 
                  CURTIS (CONT D) (reassuring smile) 
            Sorry - not trying to make you paranoid. New 
        officer in my Company, so - I took a look at your 
                                      background. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Find anything interesting? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        To be honest David, you need to get out more. My 
                Auntie Alice has a more exciting life. 
 
They share a smile as CURTIS goes to pour another drink. 
Bottle s empty. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                            I ll go grab another - 
 
CURTIS leaves the room. TOM waits a beat, then - 
Grabs the mobile from Curtis  pocket. On its screen - 1 Missed 
Call. He pushes buttons - *#61# -  enter  - 
 
And up pops a phone number. TOM studies it a second, 
memorising... CURTIS rummaging in the next room... 
 
TOM replaces the phone as he hears CURTIS return. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2030 
 
ZOE, RUTH, DANNY, SAM. 
 
                                  ZOE (to SAM) 
              Tell Polestar we re ready when they are. 
                                    (to RUTH) 
          It s you and me now. Let s show off to Harry. 
 
ON THE MONITORS: the Stick lumbers into action. Starts 
creeping forward. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                And they re off. 
 



 32                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 33 

                                        DANNY 
                      Hardly the Whacky Races, is it? 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CURTIS  OFFICE - NIGHT 2. 2031 
 
CURTIS has just topped TOM s glass up. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                  Here s a question for you, David    
                            (he holds TOM S gaze) 
              - some of the stuff we ve discussed... how 
                      strongly do you feel about it? 
 
                                  TOM (a beat) 
                              What do you mean? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
              I mean... would you take the chance to do 
                                      something? 
 
                                        TOM 
            If I thought it would make a difference... 
 
CURTIS studies TOM. Makes his decision. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            I have a small protest in mind. Be great if I 
                        could count on your support. 
 
TOM doesn t want to rush this... 
 
                                        TOM 
                What form... would this protest take? 
 
CURTIS pulls a sheet of printed paper from a drawer. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            I m asking each man in the Company if he s 
                            prepared to sign this. 
                            (hands the paper over) 
        The issues we re worried about. I reckon I m in a 
            position to get it direct to Downing Street. 
 
TOM reads the paper. Looks up at CURTIS - surprised. And 
truthfully... relieved. 
 
                                        TOM 
          It s a petition. You re organising a petition. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                    You ve got to start somewhere... 
 



 33                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 34 

                                        TOM 
                              Do you have a pen? 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. TOM S ROOM - NIGHT 2. 2255 
 
TOM looks tired. Maybe even slightly pissed. He lies down on 
the bed, speaks into his mobile. 
 
                                        TOM 
            Eagle One is not, repeat not a threat. He is 
              exercising his democratic right to written 
        protest. Nightingale, however, is a weasely little 
          bastard who should be sent to the Tower. He s an 
          amateur who didn t even tell us that Curtis had 
            two mobile phones. Those of you still of a 
            paranoid disposition may confirm Eagle One s 
        innocence by unlawfully listening to his voicemail 
                  on the following number. 0-7-7-6... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2301 
 
HARRY, SAM, MALCOLM and DANNY listening in as TOM s message 
plays back, SAM writing the number down. 
 
                                    TOM (V.O.) 
          - 3-2-3. My next call in is at 0700, when I ll 
          tell you how I want to be extracted from this 
          badly sourced pigs ear of an operation. Night, 
                                        night. 
 
Message ends. No-one quite sure what to make of that. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Is he pissed? 
 
                                        ZOE 
              Tired. Night exercise earlier in the week, 
          rendezvous with me in the small hours yesterday. 
                                  Let him sleep. 
 
ZOE S phone ringing - she grabs it as - 
 
MALCOLM hangs up on another call. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                    Curtis  Voicebox is PIN-protected. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Get the code from his service provider. Let s be 
                                        sure. 
 
                                    ZOE (O.S.) 
                                      Dammit! 


 34                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 35 

 
All look over as she slams down her phone. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
          Dockers are coming out, 7pm tomorrow. (to SAM) 
          Let Polestar know. The Stick needs to stay on 
                  schedule or we re back to square one. 
 
INT. THE STICK TRUCK - NIGHT 2. 2304 
 
TWO MEN sitting in the front seat of the truck, one driving, 
one alongside, reading the paper. 
 
                                POLESTAR (V.O.) 
        Stick One, be advised - industrial action at Dover 
        in less than twenty hours. Be aware of schedule. 
 
The DRIVER reaches for the radio to respond - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 2. 2305 
 
CLOSE on a computer terminal. Pictures of the unit from Iraq. 
CURTIS. BAKER. WALLACE. PARKS. HANSON. 
 
And SCOBEY. Missing, presumed dead. 
 
In fact - The Stick Driver. 
 
                                  SCOBEY (V.O.) 
              Copied, Polestar. We re making good time. 
 
ZOE - watching motorway CCTV footage of the Stick with RUTH. 
 
                                        ZOE 
      We have to stay on our toes. The Stick needs to be 
              put to bed by 1800 hours tomorrow night. 
 
SAM, is getting ready to go home for the day, shows DANNY - 
 
                                        SAM 
                    Harry s present. 25 year old malt. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Good choice. 
 
SAM replaces the bottle in a box file stamped  UK EYES ALPHA: 
TOP SECRET , locks it away in a filing cabinet. Pleased DANNY 
approved her whiskey selection. 
 
                                        SAM 
                              See you tomorrow. 
 



 35                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 36 

She heads for the pods. DANNY screws up his courage... trots 
along behind her. ZOE clocks this from her workstation. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                  Listen... er... 
 
                              SAM (still walking) 
                                        Yeah? 
 
                                        DANNY 
          D you want to... some night... when it s a bit 
                  less busy... maybe we could, ah... 
 
SAM steps into the pods. Looks at DANNY. Amused. 
 
                                  DANNY (CONT'D) 
          You want to get a beer sometime? Maybe dinner? 
 
                                        SAM 
                              We work together. 
 
DANNY grins. Relieved. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I know. That s the good bit. They like us to date 
                      each other. Security reasons. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Whose? Theirs, or ours? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          Harry would be thrilled. 
 
                                        SAM 
        You really know how to flatter a girl... You want 
      to go out with me, or you want to get into Tom and 
                              Harrys  good books? 
 
                                        DANNY 
                        The first bit. Definitely. 
 
SAM touches the pod button. 
 
                                        SAM 
                          Thought you d never ask. 
 
And as the glass doors seal her off from DANNY... she blows 
him a kiss... 
 
DANNY turns away. Delighted. He catches ZOE s eye and grins, 
she smiles back. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. TOM S ROOM - NIGHT 2. 0030 


 36                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 37 

 
Darkness. TOM asleep in bed, when - 
 
The door smashes open. Three masked men (BAKER, WALLACE, 
PARKS) crash into the room, drag TOM from his bed. TOM taken 
unawares - blindfolded in seconds. 
 
                                        BAKER 
                                  Out! Out! Out! 
 
As he s dragged away TOM s mobile is jarred off the bedside 
table. A heavy Army boot smashes it in the scuffle. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. CORRIDOR - NIGHT 2. 0045 
 
TOM and other squaddies, including WOODS, all blindfolded and 
bound - waiting to be herded into an interrogation room. 
WALLACE, PARKS, BAKER shepherding them. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
        Everyone sit! Cross-legged, hands under your arse! 
 
                                WOODS (panicky) 
                                What s going on?! 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                      Shut up! 
 
                                        TOM 
                Just an exercise, Corporal. Stay calm. 
 
Whack! - WALLACE slaps TOM across the face. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                I said - shut up. 
 
BRYANT is brought out of the interrogation room, exhausted. 
WALLACE points at TOM - 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 2. 0046 
 
- who is slammed into a chair. 
 
                                  WALLACE (V.O.) 
                            Remove his blindfold. 
 
A hand rips TOM s blindfold away. He blinks at a light shining 
in his eyes. Opposite him, WALLACE and PARKS sit behind a 
desk. 
 
TOM senses movement behind him, starts to turn - 
 
                                WALLACE (CONT D) 


 37                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 38 

                                        Name? 
 
CURTIS steps quietly back into the shadows. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Getty. David. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                        Name? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Getty. David. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                            Name. Your real name. 
 
                                  TOM (a beat) 
                                  Getty. Dav -   
 
                                      WALLACE 
        You ve forgotten it haven t you? You ve forgotten 
                                your real name. 
 
Silence from TOM. 
 
                                WALLACE (CONT D) 
                                  Who are you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  Getty. David. 
 
                                  WALLACE (sighs) 
                How do I spell Getty? With a -y or -ie? 
 
                                        TOM 
                            I cannot answer that - 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                      It s hardly a trick question. 
 
TOM stays silent. 
 
                          WALLACE (CONT D) (sighs) 
                                        Rank? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Lieutenant. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                            What s your Regiment? 
 
                                        TOM 
                      I cannot answer that question. 


 38                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 39 

 
                              WALLACE (Aggressive) 
        Are you stupid, mate? You must know your Regiment. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                    I cannot - 
 
                                      WALLACE 
            You re in the shit, son. I need to know your 
                      Regiment to get you out of here. 
 
TOM stays quiet, looks over their heads. 
 
A beat. 
 
                                WALLACE (CONT D) 
                                      Number? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      541232. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                      Regiment? 
 
                                        TOM 
                                I cannot answer - 
 
                                      WALLACE 
            Look you arsehole - name, rank, number means 
            nothing to me. Any bastard can make those up. 
        Until you tell me your Regiment you re not getting 
                                  out of here. 
 
TOM stays silent. A beat, then - 
 
A chuckle. And CURTIS steps forward. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                          Well played, Lieutenant. 
 
The door opens behind TOM. Free to go. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                              Now get some sleep. 
 
TOM leaves passing WOODS who is being hauled in. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 2. 0105 
 
WOODS in the hot seat. The little runt looks scared. WALLACE 
and PARKS opposite. 
 



 39                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 40 

                                        WOODS 
                          Is this an exercise...? 
                                  (no response) 
                          What do you want to know? 
                                (More. Silence.) 
        I can help you, you know. If it s not an exercise. 
 
WALLACE looks at CURTIS over WOODS shoulder. Hello? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                        What do you mean, Corporal? 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 2 0115 
 
WOODS is being lead out of the room. CURTIS turns to WALLACE. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Don t let Mr. Getty out of your sight. He s 
              probably not alone. And I want him with us 
                            tomorrow when we move. 
 
INT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS. TOM S ROOM - DAY 3. 0650 
 
TOM s alarm clock rings. 6.50a.m. His eyes flicker open. He 
squints, sits up. Winces. Looks around for his mobile phone. 
Sees it in pieces on the floor. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0712 
 
DANNY, ZOE, SAM - in front of SAM s monitor, watching her 
3-D undulating blip. Silent, waiting, then - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                We tell Harry. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - DAY 3. 0712 
 
HARRY reading papers as DANNY and ZOE enter. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                    Tom s missed a scheduled call-in. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                    How late? 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                Twelve minutes. 
 
HARRY reaches for a phone, looks at DANNY. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Run the contingency plan. 
 


 40                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 41 

INT. CORRIDOR - BARRACKS. DAY 3. 0800 
 
TOM walking down the corridor, passes the noticeboard. Checks 
it for - 
 
A GREEN thumb-tack in one corner. 
 
EXT. BARRACKS. DAY 3. 0810 
 
TOM turns into a quiet corner of the barracks, where as he 
expected - 
 
DANNY is waiting. In Army uniform, Sergeant s stripes. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Reassuring to know back-up plans actually work. My 
              mobile got damaged in a training exercise. 
          Everything s fine. Brought the transfer orders I 
                                        hope? 
 
He pulls out a sheaf of paperwork. 
 
                                        DANNY 
        I have them here. Lieutenant David Getty is being 
                            sent back to Belfast. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Good. I didn t get into this job to spy on my own 
        side. I regard Curtis as a colleague. We all have 
                the same job - to protect this country. 
 
                TOM (CONT D) (he checks the paperwork) 
            He s is something of a loose cannon, lonely, 
        rather pleased with himself, and pissed off about 
          a bunch of Army issues, but none of those things 
          constitute treason. The MOD were hoping I d find 
            something dirty around Curtis but I m afraid 
                    they re going to be disappointed. 
                      (hands the paper back to DANNY) 
        He s a first class soldier - a threat only to the 
              enemies of this nation and the postmen of 
                                      Whitehall. 
 
DANNY moves away... 
 
                                        DANNY 
          The paperwork will clear by the end of the day, 
        no-one will ever know that you weren t for real. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              Story of my life. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0855 


 41                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 42 

 
MALCOLM at his station. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                          Second opinion, please! 
 
ZOE s there first. HARRY, RUTH not far behind. 
 
                                MALCOLM (CONT D) 
            Curtis  Voicebox - he deletes messages after 
          playback, it took me  til now to recover it from 
                            the storage computer - 
 
He plays back a voicemail message on speakerphone. 
 
                                  SCOBEY (V.O.) 
        Strike One reporting in. Confirm RV at 0830 hours. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          That could mean anything... Try voiceprinting. 
 
He starts tapping the keyboard. 
 
EXT. STONEFIELD BARRACKS - DAY 3. 0815 
 
TOM approaches the platoon barracks. WOODS, BAKER, PARKS, 
three other SQUADDIES hanging around outside. CURTIS is there 
with WALLACE. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                        Morning, David. Sleep well? 
 
Two Army trucks parked nearby, engines running. 
 
                                        TOM 
                            What I got of it, yes. 
 
The soldiers are all carrying SA 80 s... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Lucky you. We were up all night. Had a whole 
                            platoon to interrogate. 
 
And TOM is aware - 
 
The men are encircling him. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      Uh-huh... 
 
He s surrounded. CURTIS stands right in front of him. 
 



 42                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 43 

                                        CURTIS 
                  Have you enjoyed your posting here? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        I ve had considerably worse. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        Makes a change from sleeping with Russian spies or 
        spying on Libyan trade delegations, or whatever it 
        is you people do to justify your existence these 
                                        days. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                      I don t - 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          Corporal Woods finally... decided... where his 
                                  loyalties lie. 
 
TOM glances at WOODS. Who smirks. 
 
                                        WOODS 
        Sorry. Unlike you, the Major can spare me a court-
                                      martial. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          You people screwed up your chance to defend the 
        West. Now it s down to us - the Armies - to sort 
                                      it out. 
                                      (a beat) 
        So you ll forgive me if I m a bit pissed off that 
        M.I.5 investigated a distinguished Army officer at 
            a time when espionage efforts could be better 
                            concentrated elsewhere. 
 
Another beat. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I was only following my orders. I m sure you 
                                  understand that. 
 
CURTIS studies him for a long moment. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                Apology accepted. 
 
He smiles. A beat. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                  What d you think I was up to anyway? 
 
TOM glances at WOODS. 
 


 43                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 44 

                                        TOM 
          We received information. That you were going to 
                lead your men into industrial action. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              Industrial action? 
 
CURTIS laughs. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                  Do I look like a socialist to you? 
 
WALLACE... joining in CURTIS  amusement... 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
        Sitting around refusing to do what I m trained to 
                        do ain t exactly my style. 
 
And - the laughter just left his eyes. 
 
Behind TOM - the sound of a rifle being cocked.  
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                            In the truck, please. 
 
And as the SOLDIERS start climbing into the trucks, TOM is 
plasticuffed and nudged at gunpoint into the back of Army 
Truck One, CURTIS alongside. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0826 
 
MALCOLM at his computer, ZOE, HARRY, RUTH at his shoulder. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
        There were no database matches for the voiceprint. 
          I spoke to Curtis  mobile service provider. The 
        footprint for the call he received came from here 
                                          - 
 
He points at a map on his monitor - 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        The Stick s starting-point. 
 
                                        RUTH 
        Someone in that convoy made a phone call to Curtis 
                  just before they set off last night. 
 
HARRY turns to SAM - urgent. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        Where s Danny? Any word? Red flash him. I want him 
                              on the phone now. 


 44                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 45 

 
                                        ZOE 
            Hanson - the drunk? He told Danny that Curtis 
                        offered him a driving job. 
                                (turns to RUTH) 
                          Who s driving the Stick? 
 
SAM S hanging on the phone - 
 
                                        SAM 
                            Danny s phone is dead. 
 
RUTH s beside SAM, computing away. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            Personnel records from the Nuclear Authority. 
 
SCOBEY s M.O.D. head-and-shoulders shot is up on her monitor. 
She hits buttons. A Nuclear Authority personnel file with 
photo pings up on the monitor next to it. 
 
                                  RUTH (CONT D) 
          Snap. William Scobey. Our missing presumed dead 
                  team member. He s driving the Stick. 
 
INT. THE STICK TRUCK - DAY 3. 0827 
 
SCOBEY driving. Beside him - an unconscious co-driver. SCOBEY 
puts his foot down. The speedometer rising... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0827 
 
RUTH, ZOE and HARRY. 
 
                                        RUTH 
            The Nuclear Authority routinely recruit ex-
          military as convoy drivers and escorts. Scobey 
        took the job six months ago under an assumed name. 
          His background checked out from top to bottom - 
        including glowing references from a distinguished 
            former colleague - Curtis. Scobey s a plant. 
 
ZOE - on comms-link. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                    Polestar? - you have a situation. 
 
EXT. MAIN ROAD - DAY 3. 0828 
 
ARMY TRUCK ONE and TWO parked on the road, maybe 100 yards 
apart. TOM and CURTIS in the rear of Army Truck One, looking 
back at the second truck. 
 


 45                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 46 

In the distance - the Stick convoy approaching Army Truck Two. 
Nuclear Authority POLICE VEHICLE leading. 
 
And as TOM watches - 
 
WALLACE and three other SQUADDIES jump from the rear of Army 
Truck Two - 
 
Spread out across the road - 
 
And raise SA80 s - aiming at the oncoming Police Vehicle. 
 
The Police Vehicle slews to a halt at the side of the road. 
WALLACE and his men advance, weapons trained on the men 
inside.  
 
                                      WALLACE 
                Show me your hands! Show me your hands! 
 
TWO NUCLEAR AUTHORITY POLICEMEN in front of the Police Vehicle 
- raise their hands in surrender. 
 
WALLACE - waves the Stick truck on through - towards Army 
Truck One 
 
INSIDE TRUCK ONE - TOM glances at CURTIS. Who smiles. 
 
                              CURTIS (reassuring) 
                  Don t worry. No-one will get hurt. 
 
The Stick truck approaching them - 
 
Behind it - POLICE VEHICLE TWO. WALLACE and one other SQUADDIE 
step into the road again - aim their rifles. 
 
Police Vehicle Two screeches to a halt - 
 
WALLACE and his men disarm its occupants, gather their 
weapons. Leave the POLICEMEN sitting in their vehicles. 
 
                                      WALLACE 
                                      Go! Go! 
 
And as his men pile into the back of Army Truck Two - WALLACE 
raises his rifle - 
 
Shoots on the tires on both POLICE VEHICLES. 
 
INSIDE TRUCK ONE - CURTIS bangs on the driver s cabin. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                        Go! 
 


 46                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 47 

And Army truck One pulls out in front of the Stick Truck. 
 
WALLACE jumps into the back of Army Truck Two - which follows 
behind the Stick. 
 
All pull away. 
 
The Stick has a new escort. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0830 
 
ZOE on comms-link. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                        What s happening, Polestar? 
 
Radio silence. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
                                What s going on? 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT - DAY 3. 1201 
 
The sticks convoy cruising towards an industrial depot. 
 
TWO SECURITY CARDS at the entrance to the Depot. 
 
But not for long. TWO MEN jump out of Army Truck One - march 
them off at gunpoint. Wave the Stick convoy on through. 
 
T.B.C. - aerial shot from the Thames revealing - an OIL 
STORAGE DEPOT. Sequence of shots as the Stick moves through 
the Depot - 
 
And grinds to a halt beside a row of HUGE OIL STORAGE VATS. 
 
CURTIS jumps down from Army Truck One, TOM following. 
 
Army Truck Two starts unloading its men. And - 
 
DANNY steps down at gunpoint, hands also palsti-cuffed and 
tied behind his back. 
 
                    On TOM: he knows he s fucked up. 
 
                          CURTIS (to TOM re: DANNY) 
                        Friend of yours I believe. 
 
TOM looks to DANNY - Shit. Sorry. 
 
SCOBEY steps out of the Stick driver cabin, hands CURTIS the 
radio that links to Polestar. And the Grid. 
 


 47                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 48 

                                        SCOBEY 
                              It s all yours, sir. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                  Nice to be working with you again. 
                            (to WALLACE and PARKS) 
                    Secure the perimeter, gentlemen. 
 
WALLACE and PARKS start directing the four other squaddies, 
including WOODS, into position. Everyone locking and loading. 
BAKER opens a briefcase. Inside - a laptop computer and 
satellite phone. Standard war reporter style kit for sending 
video reports from the frontline. He starts hooking it up to a 
video-camera. 
 
                          CURTIS (CONT D) (to TOM) 
        I know you re not a bad man, David - or whatever 
              your name is. But you see - neither am I. 
 
                                        TOM 
                        What are you planning to do? 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                        I just want to make a point. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0835 
 
ZOE, HARRY, RUTH, SAM and MALCOLM - looking at the digitised 
Stick location map. Satellite imagery shows the Stick s 
location in the oil depot. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                  Close-up on Stick s location please. 
 
SAM taps a key - the map snaps to a close grid of the Stick s 
location.  OIL STORAGE DEPOT  clearly labelled. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                                      Christ. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0836 
 
BAKER hoists the vid-camera, gives CURTIS a thumbs-up. 
 
                                        BAKER 
                        Ready when you are, Major. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                  Start filming. 
 
CURTIS speaks into The Stick radio. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0836 


 48                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 49 

 
All listen as his voice booms out over the monitors. 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
                          This is Major Sam Curtis. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0836 
 
CURTIS watching TOM s reaction as he speaks... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I have control of the nuclear transportation known 
          to you as Stick One. You will see from your GPS 
                        tracker our exact location - 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0836 
 
The Stick beacon flashes on their digitised map. 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
        - and you might want to start evacuating the area. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0836 
 
                                CURTIS (a beat) 
          Almost five hundred British soldiers have died 
            since the Gulf War. Cause of death: Gulf War 
          Syndrome. The authorities expect men to take the 
        same risks again and again. With inferior weapons, 
          minimal life insurance and laughable salaries. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0836 
 
MALCOLM is ripping a fax from the machine. 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
          A full list of the issues I demand the British 
          goverment address has been faxed to the Chief of 
                                  Defence Staff. 
 
MALCOLM shoves the fax under HARRY s nose. 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Curtis  ransom note. Compensation and treatment 
              for victims of Gulf War Syndrome... ditto 
          P.T.S.D... 50% pay hike across the board... you 
                              can guess the rest. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0836 
 
CURTIS nods at WOODS - who opens a canvas kit-bag. 
 
                              CURTIS (into radio) 


 49                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 50 

          I have been campaigning in every legitimate way 
        possible for years, but Whitehall refuses to take 
              me seriously. So now it s come to this. 
 
He reaches into WOODS  kit-bag. Pulls out - a brick of plastic 
explosive. A detonator already pushed into it. 
 
TOM and DANNY - this is bad. 
 
BAKER filming all this. 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
            Unless my terms are agreed in the next thirty 
          minutes I shall be transmitting a videotape from 
        my location via sat-phone to every major Western 
            broadcaster. I don t think I... er... flatter 
          myself that it will be headline news the second 
          they realise who I am. Especially when they see 
        that I have surrounded a truckload of irradiated 
          uranium with fifty pounds of plastic explosive. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0836 
 
Frantic activity - everyone working the phones. 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
            If my terms are still not met within sixty 
                                      minutes... 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0836 
 
CURTIS slaps the plastic explosive onto the side of an oil 
vat. BAKER filming. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            Then south east England will be twinned with 
          Chernobyl. Someone better get back to me quick. 
 
A timer on the explosive. CURTIS pushes a button - 
 
                                CURTIS (CONT D) 
                      The clock s started ticking. 
 
He tosses the radio to BAKER. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0837 
 
ZOE slams down a phone. 
 
                                        ZOE 
            We re establishing a 20-mile cordon sanitaire 
              around the Stick. All air, road and rail 
            transportation has been stopped, the police are 


 50                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 51 

            evacuating civilians from the immediate area - 
            claiming there s a fractured gas pipe running 
        under the storage plant. A counter-terrorist team 
                is choppering in, e.t.a. five minutes. 
 
HARRY, MALCOLM, SAM listening. 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT'D) 
        Curtis has just created the world s biggest dirty 
                                        bomb. 
 
                                        SAM 
                        What about Tom? And Danny? 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                        He can t explode the Stick. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        I d like to believe that... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          I mean - he physically can t. The container is 
        made of titanium steel, it s several feet thick. 
          You can run an express train into it, the train 
              will end up in the scrapyard. It requires 
          specialised tools to open. You don t just pop the 
                        lid off with a screwdriver. 
 
ZOE s looking at the map on the Grid monitors. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                                        Fire. 
 
She points - large circular markings on the map all around the 
Stick indicate - 
 
                                  ZOE (CONT D) 
          These are oil vats. He s not going to bomb the 
            truck - he s going to bomb those. Massive oil 
        fire, the whole scene becomes a giant furnace... 
                                  (to MALCOLM) 
                      What would that do to uranium? 
 
Everyone realising... 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
                      It would make it very angry. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0840 
 
TOM and DANNY held at gunpoint. CURTIS grins. 
 



 51                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 52 

                                        CURTIS 
              And they thought I was a pain in the arse 
                                      before... 
 
                                  DANNY (to TOM) 
                You said he was organising a petition. 
 
TOM s face - I know, I know... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I am. But it didn t work last year and I doubt it 
        will make any difference this year. So I ve gone 
                                  with Plan B. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                                You won t do it. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                  You think...? 
                                      (a beat) 
        What choice do I have? Frankly, your presence here 
          pretty much makes my case for me. It seems that 
        third world and Eastern bloc dictators are not the 
            only powers who monitor and infiltrate their 
                                      military. 
                                      (a beat) 
                  Get the camera again, S ant Major. 
 
EXT. QUAY ALONGSIDE DEPOT - DAY 3. 0841 
 
Black-clad COUNTER-TERRORIST types moving into position around 
the depot. Find some cover, set up their firing positions. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT - DAY 3. 0841 
 
WALLACE watching the COUNTER-TERRORIST TEAM through field 
glasses.  
 
                              WALLACE (to CURTIS) 
            Counter-terrorist team are in position, Major. 
 
CURTIS glances in the direction WALLACE is looking. And throws 
a casual salute at the SNIPERS. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
            I don t think we need trouble ourselves about 
                                      that... 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0842 
 
ZOE in front of the map. 
 



 52                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 53 

                                        ZOE 
        The C.T. team are in place, have found some cover 
                                        here   
                                  (she points) 
          and are setting up a video feed now. We should 
                  have picture in a couple of minutes. 
                                  (another beat) 
                    Tom and Danny must be in there. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0843 
 
TOM and DANNY still at gunpoint as BAKER films - he s close on 
TOM. CURTIS standing alongside, addressing the camera. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
          This is the face of the 21st century spy, the 
        secret face of the most paranoid government in the 
        West. Although... I believe this man understands 
                            what I m trying to do. 
 
                                        TOM 
          I understand why you are doing it. But not this 
                                        way. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0843 
 
ZOE in front of a monitor, on a comms-link. 
 
                                  SNIPER (V.O.) 
                Sierra One - uploading V.T. link now. 
 
An image appears on ZOE S monitor. A view of the Stick sitting 
inside the warehouse in long-shot. 
 
                                        ZOE 
          Thank you, Sierra One. Can you zoom any closer? 
 
The image starts zooming in... 
 
                    ZOE (CONT D) (over her shoulder) 
                                We have visuals! 
 
She taps commands on her keyboard and the image appears on the 
overhead monitors. As everyone looks: 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
                        No-one s talking to me yet. 
 
Booming out over the speakers. 
 
RUTH waves a phone at HARRY. 
 



 53                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 54 

                                        RUTH 
                                      M.O.D. - 
 
As HARRY takes the phone - 
 
                                  HARRY (to SAM) 
        Patch me into the Stick communications. I ll talk 
                                to this bastard. 
 
SAM grabs a phone, speed-dials. 
 
                        HARRY (CONT D) (into phone) 
                                  Harry Pearce. 
 
He listens... 
 
                            SAM (into her phone) 
        Grid request a talk-thru on this line, immediate. 
 
On HARRY. His face grim. 
 
                              HARRY (into phone) 
                  Let s hope it doesn t come to that. 
 
He thrusts the phone back at RUTH. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
                              Keep this line open. 
 
                                  CURTIS (V.O.) 
        You people in MI5. I know you re listening. I have 
          two of your men here. They ll each be receiving 
            their very own close-up on international news 
                                      channels. 
 
INT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0844 
 
CURTIS is holding his radio, waiting for a response. 
 
                                  HARRY (V.O.) 
                                  Major Curtis. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              Identify yourself. 
 
INTERCUT WITH HARRY - on comms-link: 
 
                              HARRY (ignores that) 
                              Are my officers OK? 
 
TOM and DANNY can hear HARRY s voice on CURTIS  radio. 
 



 54                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 55 

                                        CURTIS 
            Of course they are. I m not Ghenghis Khan. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            Let me speak to them. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                              Negative, Mr. M.I.5. 
 
                                        TOM 
              Work with him. Let us get you out of this. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We know everything, Major. We even know about 
                                  William Scobey. 
That gets a reaction from CURTIS and his men. 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        So what makes you think we d put him at the wheel 
            of a genuine consignment of nuclear waste? 
 
                              CURTIS (irritated) 
                                You re bluffing. 
 
                                        TOM 
          He s not. We ve been running this operation for 
                                        weeks. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          Do you want to open Pandora s Box to find out? 
        Blow that site, all you re doing is killing your 
                                      own men. 
 
                                        TOM 
          Listen to him. My assignment was to prove your 
            innocence. There s still a way back from this. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0844 
 
All watching the monitors. They can see CURTIS, TOM, DANNY at 
the entrance to the warehouse... 
 
                      CURTIS (V.O.) (a beat, then -) 
            It appears no-one is taking me seriously... 
 
And everyone reacts - 
 
INT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0844 
 
- as CURTIS pulls a 9mm handgun, cocks it. Forces TOM and 
DANNY to their knees. 
 
                              CURTIS (into radio) 


 55                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 56 

      So if someone doesn t make me an offer in the next 
            five minutes... I m going to execute a spy. 
                          (points the gun at DANNY) 
              Like me - you get paid to take the risk. 
 
He tosses the radio to BAKER. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0845 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                He s losing it. 
 
                                        ZOE 
                            Can we call his bluff? 
 
HARRY calls over to RUTH. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Let me speak to the M.O.D. 
 
INT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0845 
 
CURTIS  men all watching as he keeps the gun jammed to DANNY S 
head. No-one doing anything to stop him. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        I hate it when people don t listen to me. I know 
                          what I m talking about. 
 
                                        DANNY 
                          They want you to do this. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                          Then I m happy to oblige. 
 
Even BAKER senses this is getting out of control. Lowers his 
camera. 
 
                                        BAKER 
                                        Sam... 
 
                                        CURTIS 
                                      Shut up. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0845 
 
HARRY has the phone to his ear. All watching and listening. 
Tight as a drum. 
 
                                  SNIPER (V.O.) 
          This is Sierra One. I have a shot on primary. 
                                  Advise. Over. 
 


 56                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 57 

All eyes turn to HARRY. 
 
                              HARRY (into phone) 
        I have two officers in there. We can resolve this. 
                                I want more time. 
 
HARRY listens into the phone. He realises he has no choice. 
 
                            HARRY (CONT D) (flat) 
                                    I understand. 
 
INT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. - DAY 3. 0845 
 
TOM, CURTIS, DANNY - 
 
                                        TOM 
        You re being manipulated. They want you to self-
          destruct. Your arguments are valid. This is the 
          only way they can stop you. Don t be remembered 
          for the wrong reasons. Don t lead your men into 
                            the valley of death. 
 
CURTIS looks at him. And...he s wavering. Lowers his gun a 
little. 
 
TOM - senses it - driving his point up. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
          They will take the kill shot. You ve made your 
                    point. They can t ignore you now. 
 
As TOM watches - 
 
A red dot appears on CURTIS  chest. Laser targeting. 
 
CURTIS looks at the dot, looks up to see where the sniper is 
located. 
 
                                  TOM (CONT D) 
              Drop the weapon, Major. Your men will be 
                        massacred. Stand them down. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0845 
 
HARRY listening on the phone. Grim-faced. Whatever he s 
hearing, he doesn t like it. 
 
                              HARRY (into phone) 
                            Of course. Thank you. 
 
He hands the phone back to RUTH. 
 
                          HARRY (CONT D) (to ZOE) 


 57                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 58 

                                Sierra One link? 
 
She hands him another phone. 
 
                        HARRY (CONT D) (into phone) 
                        Sierra One? - Green light. 
 
EXT. OIL STORAGE DEPOT. DAY 3. 0846 
 
CURTIS looks towards the SNIPER positions. 
 
He spreads his arms - standing in plain sight - the red laser 
dot centred on his chest... 
 
Confident in his omnipotence. 
 
                                        CURTIS 
        There isn t a British soldier alive who d take a 
                                    shot at me. 
 
And - 
 
BANG. 
 
CURTIS takes a bullet in the chest. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        NO!!! 
 
T.B.C. - aerial shot. CURTIS dead on the ground. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - DAY 3. 0846 
 
All startled as CURTIS goes down - 
 
                                  SNIPER (V.O.) 
                                T-1 neutralised. 
 
HARRY s face. Impassive. 
 
He takes the phone from RUTH. Walks to his office, closes the 
door. He begins to speak into the phone. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. THE GRID - NIGHT 3. 1901 
 
HARRY s Birthday Party. Good spirits. Everyone celebrating a 
job well done. SAM - pleased to see DANNY - as RUTH pecks TOM 
on the cheek. 
 
                                        RUTH 
                                  Welcome back. 
 
Then - excited - can t help herself - 


 58                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 59 

 
                                  RUTH (CONT D) 
                    Harry s renewed my secondment... 
 
Just had to tell someone. Luckily, ZOE s there to celebrate 
with her... 
 
MALCOLM with COLIN - awkwardly juggling a drink and a paper 
plate of party food - 
 
                                      MALCOLM 
          Thought you d want to know... Curtis  videotape. 
                                It s gone away. 
 
TOM s face - of course it has. Not necessarily a good thing. 
He looks at a TV monitor playing overhead. 
 
                                        T.V. 
            ... was one of the country s most-respected 
          soldiers. Following his death in a car accident 
            today, Major Curtis is to be buried with full 
          military honours. Other news. Dockers at Dover 
            have called off threatened industrial action 
                                    following - 
 
                                CHRISTINE (O.S.) 
                                Hey, stranger... 
 
TOM turns. She s right behind him. He steps forward - til 
they re as close as they can be without actually touching. 
 
                                CHRISTINE (CONT D) 
                                You look tired. 
 
                                        TOM 
                              You look great... 
 
                                      CHRISTINE 
                                My place? Later? 
 
TOM - yes, please - but before he can speak - 
 
HARRY s there. Right between them. Wearing a party hat and an 
 I m The Boss  badge off a birthday card. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                Happy Birthday. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                                  Welcome back. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                        Chat? 


 59                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 60 

 
                                        HARRY 
                                      Absolutely. 
 
INT. THAMES HOUSE. HARRY S OFFICE - NIGHT 3. 1902 
 
HARRY closes the door, shuts out the party noise. CHRISTINE S 
watching as the door closes. 
 
                        HARRY (Icey. Re: CHRISTINE) 
                      How long s that been going on? 
 
                                  TOM (a beat) 
                                    Not long. 
 
A moment. HARRY sighs. 
 
                                        HARRY 
                            What happened to you? 
 
                                        TOM 
                        Who ordered Curtis  death? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      That doesn t matter -    
 
                                        TOM 
            Did you? Or were you taking instruction from 
                                  someone else? 
 
                                        HARRY 
                        Curtis was out of control. 
 
                                        TOM 
            I could have talked him down. He was ready to 
            surrender.... but getting Curtis to back down 
        would have been a failure. They needed him removed 
                                      forever. 
 
                                        HARRY 
          We neutralised a threat to national security. 
                                That s our job. 
 
                                        TOM 
          What part did Corporal Woods play? Did he get a 
        deal? Immunity, promotion? He was a set up wasn t 
                        he? A plant from the M.O.D. 
 
                                        HARRY 
        What if Curtis had been an international terrorist 
        not a British Army Officer? You wouldn t question 
                  how we resolved the situation then. 
 


 60                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 61 

                                        TOM 
          I misjudged him. Worse - I allowed myself to be 
          used by the Government of the day for it s own 
          ends. They wanted Curtis silenced and I was the 
        blunt instrument. This country s Army would never 
          mutiny. It does everything asked of it and more. 
            Curtis was only trying to give them a voice - 
 
                                        HARRY 
            You got too close to the subject. Don t let 
                              personal feelings - 
 
                                        TOM 
          Personal feelings. I have personal feelings... 
 
It s like he s never heard the phrase before. But it explains 
so much... 
 
                                        HARRY 
                          Then bury them. Because - 
 
                                        TOM 
        Screw. You. If the new world order means we re in 
          the business of destroying anyone who questions 
        the political agenda... then I m in the wrong job. 
 
A long beat. 
 
                                        HARRY 
            Take a long weekend. Then put this operation 
                                    behind you. 
 
                                        TOM 
        Shame on you, Harry. Shame on you for allowing us 
                              to be manipulated. 
 
                                  HARRY (steel) 
          It s OVER. I ll take your debrief another time. 
                  And as regards Mata Hari out there - 
 
CHRISTINE - watching from the Grid - 
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
        - no fraternising with foreign operatives, even if 
        they re friendlies. You and I both know there s no 
                          such thing in our world. 
 
                                        TOM 
                                  I will not - 
 
                                        HARRY 
                      NEVER! QUESTION! MY! DECISIONS! 
 


 61                                                  Spooks\Season 2\Episode 8 Page 62 

Fuck... TOM s face is set in stone.   
 
                                  HARRY (CONT D) 
          End it. I don t care how, I do care when. Next 
                  time I see you, you re a single man. 
 
He slams the door as he goes. 
 
TOM - stares at the plate glass window through to the Grid 
party going on outside. CHRISTINE looking at him. His own 
reflection, shadowy on the glass. 
 
Who are you? 
 
FADE OUT. 
 
END OF EPISODE 





































 62