    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    1



INT. TOILETS. ALEXANDRA PALACE. LONDON - EVENING 1, 18581A1A

CLOSE UP ON FREDDIE, looking straight to camera, playful, as 
if in an interview, he clutches a sheaf of paper/ manifesto, a 
pencil in his other hand-

                                  FREDDIE
                The newsreels are dead. We ve bored 
                the public for too long. Give me this 
                  opportunity and I ll prove it. 

FREDDIE struggles with his pencil, the lead snapping on the 
page as he corrects some piece of a manifesto.

A pencil appears from his left. FREDDIE takes it, resumes 
  correcting.

                                  FREDDIE (CONT D) (cont d)
                Of course I ll need an assistant.

PULL OUT TO REVEAL-

ISAAC standing in the doorway, beams on hearing this.

ISAAC checks his watch-

                                  ISAAC
                      (on tenterhooks)
                Two minutes Mr Lyon.

FREDDIE nods, washes his hands, straightens his tie, looking 
at himself once more in the mirror. 

                                  FREDDIE
                But may I say one more thing...You 
                haven t seen my best yet. 

FREDDIE smiles-

THE TICK TICK of a clock overhead-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

OVER A BLACK SCREEN-

The TICK TICK of a stopwatch through-

WITH CREDITS- 

                                  FREDDIE VO
                Standby studio..
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STAIRS. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 190011

The sway of a silk chiffon ball gown, a WOMAN s footsteps 
across marble, her breath, close, quickening with every step-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    1A

  CONTINUED:11

                                  FREDDIE VO
                Fade up newsreel-

RUTH ELMS [21 yrs], a nervous, gauche beauty, hurrying down 
towards a distant lobby. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE UP ON SCREEN-

                                  FREDDIE VO (cont d)
                ...cue grams. 

ARCHIVE BBC FOOTAGE of a smiling group of debutantes cheering 
on a winning horse at Ascot. 

                                  NEWS READER VO
                ...And here they are, the debutantes 
                of 1956. Young ladies of distinction -  
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. STREET. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 190122

A cold wind grazing the mink coat of an arriving GUEST-

                                  NEWS READER VO
                  ....enjoying a day at Royal Ascot.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. LOBBY. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 190233

An elegant lobby-

RUTH ELMS, eyes searching until-

A walnut telephone booth illuminated across the lobby, RUTH, 
steady on the approach.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE UP ON SCREEN-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    2

  CONTINUED:33

BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE of the same beautiful young woman, 
RUTH, gripping the arm of ADAM LE RAY [mid/late 20 s], a 
handsome young actor waving a winning ticket on a racecourse. 

                                  NEWS READER VO
                And one young woman in particular has 
                caught the eye of a certain leading 
                man, actor Adam Le Ray-

The stiff RP of the NEWSREADER heard through-

                                  NEWS READER VO (cont d)
                Engagement looks set for the 
                Honourable Ruth Elms, daughter of Lord 
                Elms of Framlingham, to this eligible 
                young bachelor-


PULL BACK TO REVEAL-

INT. GALLERY. STUDIO. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 1, 190444

The same BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE, now on a bank of monitors-

                                  NEWS READER VO
                ...All of London society awaits the 
                peal of wedding bells. 

FREDDIE LYON [mid/late 20 s], dishevelled yet fizzing, pencil 
scratching away at a crossword, sitting in a cramped gallery 
looking out on a small archaic studio. The steady pace of a 
  stopwatch in a FEMALE SECRETARY s hand-

                                    FREDDIE
                Cue foreign newsreel-

Through the gallery window, a WEARY FLOOR MANAGER just visible 
in a poky studio, scrawls a cue on a piece of paper, holding 
it up to a STIFF NEWS READER seated behind a desk, talking 
into a microphone.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 5 CUT AT GREEN AMENDMENTS55

INT. CORRIDOR O/S STUDIO. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 1, 19065A5A

The TAP TAP of heels along a corridor-

BEL ROWLEY, exquisite moving along at a pace. She stops on 
seeing the red light of transmission, checking her watch, 
excited. She hovers, waiting, like a whippet before a race.

Suddenly LIX STORM passes, looking up, catching BEL s eye in 
  anticipation-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    2A

  CONTINUED:5A5A

                                  LIX
                Did you get it?

                                  BEL
                We got it.

LIX points at her-

                                  LIX
                Producer?

BEL nods-

                                  BEL
                      (pointing at LIX)
                Foreign desk.

YELPS and CHEERS. BEL hushing her, suppressing her excitement. 

                                  LIX
                  Bravo..Bravo...

                                  BEL
                      (hushed and awkward)
                I haven t told Freddie yet.

                                  LIX
                Christ.

LIX smiles, moving on-

                                  LIX (CONT D) (cont d)
                Good luck.

The red light of transmission goes out-

BEL enters, with growing determination- 
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    3



INT. GALLERY. STUDIO. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 1, 190866

FREDDIE s eyes dart over to BEL just visible through the 
gallery window crossing the back of the studio, pulling on 
gloves, clutch in hand, standing by the FLOOR MANAGER. 

                                  FREDDIE 
                Fade up foreign newsreel- 

FREDDIE clicks his fingers, pointing to a screen. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                And thanking you, gentlemen-

FREDDIE pulls on his jacket, smiling his thanks to his GREY-
SUITED COLLEAGUES-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                ...for another fascinating evening... 
                May you go home once again happy in 
                the knowledge that we have delivered 
                the important news of the day with the 
                same brisk banality as a debutante 
                coming out in Mayfair. 
                      (counting down)
                Three two one...
                                                                                  CUT TO:

CLOSE UP ON SCREEN77

                                  NEWS READER VO
                ...In Egypt, election victory for the 
                Arab Nationalist, Colonel Gamal Abdel 
                Nasser. 

ARCHIVE BBC FOOTAGE of a smiling Colonel Nasser waving to his 
joyous electorate in Cairo, jump cut to NASSER shaking hands 
with British Prime Minister Eden. 

                                  NEWS READER VO (cont d)
                ...Here he is with Prime Minister 
                Anthony Eden during last year s visit 
                to Cairo where they discussed the 
                future of the Suez Canal company-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 8 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT88

CONTENTS MOVED TO SCENE 9A

INT. LECTURE HALL. LCES - EVENING 1, 191299

A packed auditorium in the London College of Eastern Studies.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    4

  CONTINUED:99

  Bright-eyed STUDENTS listening, PETER DARRALL [early 30 s] 
midway through a lecture; an image of an ancient papyrus 
projected across the wall overhead, rippling over his face-

                                  PETER DARRALL
                ..so you see it was not only the 
                Pharaohs who failed to write to their 
                mothers.

LAUGHTER-

PETER quietly captivating, regaling the bright-eyed STUDENTS 
with his words, eyes hesitating on-

The SCRATCH of a 2B pencil against newspaper-

A DARK-HAIRED MAN sitting in the middle of a row, looks up 
from his crossword, holding PETER with a cool gaze.

PETER hesitates, resumes talking, yet he is unsettled, fingers 
nervously tapping the paper notes resting on the podium in 
front.

                                  PETER DARRALL (cont d)
                And on that note...Papers in by Friday 
                please...

PETER s eyes flick to the TICK TICK of the clock overhead.

                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. LOBBY. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 19139A9A

The shake of RUTH s hand, cupping a telephone receiver- 

                                  RUTH
                Hello operator. Put me through to 
                Bloomsbury 7428.

RUTH s eyes anxiously scour the arriving GUESTS, her warm 
breath misting the glass, obscuring her face-

                                  FREDDIE VO
                Counting down-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. OFFICE. LCES. LONDON - EVENING 1, 19141010

A neat office-

PETER entering, tailed by a PRETTY, FLIRTATIOUS STUDENT-

                                  PETER DARRALL
                Come back tomorrow.

PETER DARRALL already reaching behind the door for his coat.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    5

  CONTINUED:1010

                                  PRETTY STUDENT
                But have I passed, Professor-?

PETER smiles but there is an urgency, hurrying the PRETTY 
STUDENT on. 

                                  PETER DARRALL
                Go out. Go play.

A PROFESSOR BECKETT (BECKETT) just leaving the office-

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT OOV
                Night Peter.

PETER nods in passing, gathering the last of his books, eyes 
quietly searching the room, littered with books and a series 
of beautiful Middle Eastern drawings pinned above a desk, with 
a growing urgency.  

                                  PETER DARRALL
                      (flicking off the light)
                Night Gerald.

PETER shoves the last of his things into his briefcase, a 
light sweat beading his forehead until-

The CLICK of the DOOR closing as PETER exits, footsteps 
descending down a corridor, oblivious to-

Suddenly the phone rings and rings and rings- 

A photo of PETER with his class of pupils resting against the 
base of a lamp, one particular student, RUTH, just visible, 
smiling and happy in the photograph.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 11 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT1111


INT. LOBBY. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 19181212

RUTH, quietly frantic, breath heavy, phone pressed to her 
cheek, waiting-

The DEAD RING of an unanswered call throbs on the other end of 
the line until-

                                  LADY ELMS OOV
                      (through glass)
                Darling-

The TAP of knuckles against glass- 

RUTH turns, shaking on seeing-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    6

  CONTINUED:1212

                                  LADY ELMS
                      (through glass)
                Our guests are arriving. 

LADY ELMS [early 50 s], RUTH s mother, smiles with flickering 
concern. RUTH puts down the phone, struggling to rest it on 
its carriage as she steps out of the booth. 

                                  RUTH
                Lipstick.
                      (making to go)
                I left my lipstick in the- 

LADY ELMS smiles, plucking a lipstick from her clutch. LORD 
ELMS [late 50 s/early 60 s] stands some way across the lobby. 

RUTH hesitates, hands shaking as she takes the lipstick.

                                  LADY ELMS
                Ssh...

LADY ELMS smiles, helping her, gently taking the lipstick and 
applying it for her.

                                  LADY ELMS (cont d)
                No need to be nervous.

RUTH nods, tears pricking. LADY ELMS smiles, with quiet steely 
  determination, waiting to lead RUTH through. RUTH looks beyond 
to LORD ELMS waiting to lead her in. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 1, 19201313

The frantic fall of paper-

                                  NEWSREADER
                And that is the end of the news. 

FREDDIE heading towards BEL, passing the STIFF NEWSREADER, 
eyes on the FLOOR MANAGER waiting for a countdown-

The FLOOR MANAGER counts down with splayed fingers, the 
NEWSREADER visibly relaxing, a relieved calm descending across 
the studio, basically a makeshift corner strung with curtain 
and desk.  

                                  FREDDIE
                      (in passing)
                Impeccable as ever, Johnny. Thank you.

FREDDIE smiles at BEL, clearly waiting, she hands him a sheaf 
of papers- 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                  Moneypenny.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    7

  CONTINUED:1313

                                  BEL
                James. 

FREDDIE s eyes gaze down the list of news stories for the 
following day.

                                  BEL (cont d)
                Friday s running cue and I am not your 
                secretary. Next time do it yourself. 

ISAAC WENGROW [early 20 s], the eager and earnest office 
runner, wheels a trolley past.

                                  FREDDIE
                And what of tomorrow Mr Wengrow? I m 
                gunning for Kennedy for the VP nom but 
                who knows...

FREDDIE slides a roll of newsreel onto its shelf, barely 
wavering in his step. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                A new hat for the Queen Mother or a 
                rare sow with twenty in her litter...?

FREDDIE passes GEORGE HEMMINGS [mid 40 s], his grey, weary 
editor looking on as he bins the first paper, moving onto the 
next sheet of paper-

                                  GEORGE 
                Lyon. Tonight. The Claringdon. You re 
                covering the engagement. 

                                  FREDDIE
                How could I forget, Georgie?

                                  BEL
                Who s getting married?

                                  FREDDIE
                Just another debutante.

                                  GEORGE
                      (moving off)
                Camera s gone ahead. 

                                  BEL
                      (calling back)
                Night George.

FREDDIE eyes the papers, reads as he tails her across the 
floor.

                                  FREDDIE
                How was I?    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    8

  CONTINUED:1313

                                  BEL
                A little slow on that last cue. 

FREDDIE s eyes flick suspiciously to a heavy, expensive man s 
watch on BEL s wrist.

                                  FREDDIE
                Nice watch. Does the broker know it s 
                missing?

                                  BEL
                Banker.

The flick flack of doors, FREDDIE tails BEL out through to- 

                                  FREDDIE
                  Please...The details of your love life 
                do not interest me at all.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. STUDIO FLOOR. ALEXANDRA PALACE - NIGHT 1, 19221414

...an endless corridor, flagged by open doors revealing 
distant studios- 

                                  FREDDIE
                Where did you dine? 

BEL slides memos for the next morning into passing pigeonholes 
as they walk.

                                  BEL
                Sheekey s. We ate oysters. And 
                afterwards he took me to the theatre. 

BEL takes a left, heading down a stairwell, FREDDIE close 
behind. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Dinner then the theatre. I do like a 
                man who plans. That way round no one 
                goes to sleep on a full stomach. 

BEL hesitates, eyeing FREDDIE, ever-wicked, a pencil still 
scratching at the crossword in his hand-

                                  BEL
                        (floundering)
                Can I cadge a lift?

FREDDIE deflects-

                                  FREDDIE
                Eight letters. 14 down. Treacherous 
                foe in bad or in good faith. Something 
                o something f something d.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    9

  CONTINUED:1414

Distant laughter of an audience-

                                  BEL
                Bona fide.

A wide doorway into an open BBC studio, a smiling CLEAN-CUT 
PRESENTER talking straight to camera, standing beside a trio 
of YOUNG GIRLS; one is holding a ventriloquist s dummy-

                                  PRESENTER
                ...and so ladies and gentlemen after 
                another delightful evening, we ask the 
                charming Winnie Sisters to play us 
                out. 

FREDDIE curses, scores out his last answer, the scratch of a 
2B pencil against his Evening Standard blending into...

The trio of YOUNG GIRLS, one holding the ventriloquist s 
dummy, stand hunched by a microphone, singing along-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. STREET. NEAR LCES. - NIGHT 1, 192514A14A

PETER walking, passing endless railings, a sense of footsteps 
behind him. PETER picks up his pace.

The DARK HAIRED man just visible as PETER disappears towards a 
distant tube station. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. KIOSK. TUBE - NIGHT 1, 19301515

PETER moving through, the sense that he is being watched-

Pausing at a newspaper kiosk, PETER is caught in brief 
exchange as he buys cigarettes. Moving on, PETER disappears 
towards the escalator- 

...the scratch of a 2B pencil against a newspaper, the DARK-
HAIRED MAN lost in his crossword. He discreetly follows PETER 
several yards behind.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 16 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT1616

CONTENTS MOVED TO SCENE 17A

INT. RECEPTION ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 1, 19361717

The POP of champagne corks-

The CHINK of CUTLERY-

The murmur of polite conversation-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    9A

  CONTINUED:1717

The SMILES and CHEERS of a HOTEL BAND picking up the same song-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    10

  CONTINUED:1717

The swirl of chiffon as ADAM LE RAY twirls RUTH in quickening 
step around a dance floor.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. TUBE - NIGHT 1, 193917A17A

PETER, moving steadily along an empty winding corridor. The 
TAP TAP of his footsteps as he walks. Slowly PETER becomes 
aware of a second set of footsteps. He turns, just seeing the 
  DARK-HAIRED MAN several yards behind following him-

Suddenly a PERT OLD LADY passes with her COMPANION-

PETER nods in passing, picking up his pace. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 18 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT1818

CONTENTS MOVED TO SCENE 20A

SCENE 19 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT1919

CONTENTS MOVED TO SCENE 20C

INT. RECEPTION ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 19422020

The SWIRL of faces as RUTH is spun across a lively dance floor-

The sense of the MUSIC QUICKENING, of the blood pumping fast 
in RUTH s head.

ADAM LE RAY grips her hand tightly, pulling her once more 
around the room. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CARRIAGE. TUBE. NORTHERN LINE - EVENING 1, 194420A20A

PETER, standing in a packed carriage, several COMMUTERS lost 
in reading their newspapers, eyes silently scouring, wavering 
on seeing-

The DARK-HAIRED MAN just visible further down the carriage. 
Squeezing past those all around, PETER peers out, beads of 
sweat breaking across his forehead.

Pushing through, the DARK-HAIRED MAN quickens his pace, the 
lights overhead momentarily hovering into darkness until-

The scrape of the wheels, as the DARK-HAIRED MAN continues 
close on PETER s tail. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    11



INT. RECEPTION ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 194620B20B

The FLEETING GLIMPSE of faces, a sense of a quickening in 
RUTH, anxiety pricking her face as ADAM spins her faster and 
faster around the dancefloor. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STAIRS. TUBE - EVENING 1, 194920C20C

PETER fleeing up stairs, pushing COMMUTERS out of his way, as 
he moves up and out. The DARK-HAIRED MAN gaining on him now.   
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENES 21 & 22 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT

INT. CORRIDOR. TUBE - EVENING 1, 19532323

PETER running now, an endless winding corridor, PETER s hands 
slapping against the wall until-

PETER takes a sharp left, heart beating, beads of sweat 
breaking across his forehead as his hand slips inside his 
briefcase-

The glint of a knife-

PETER hesitates waiting-

A lone set of FOOTSTEPS steady on the approach-

The glint of the knife, ready for the kill as PETER expertly 
grabs the DARK-HAIRED MAN, pulling him into a locked embrace. 
The DARK-HAIRED MAN s fate, evident in his eyes until-

One swift move, and PETER is on the ground, suddenly gripping 
his neck, looking in shocked horror. The DARK-HAIRED MAN steps 
back, the knife now in his hand, the job done. A steady seep 
of blood, PETER s gasping death rattle audible as the DARK-
HAIRED MAN wipes the knife on a handkerchief shaking in his 
hand-

DISTANT FOOTSTEPS. ECHO OF PASSING CHATTER. The DARK HAIRED 
MAN tensely waits until-

The FOOTSTEPS and CHATTER dissolve away- 

The DARK HAIRED MAN turns back to PETER; the sense of worse 
still to come. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 19582424

The HOTEL BAND coming to a triumphant end-

The ripple of APPLAUSE-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    12

  CONTINUED:2424

ADAM LE RAY smiles, revelling, RUTH spun in a dramatic 
flourish in his arms.

Head thrown back, RUTH is pulled to a standstill, offering a 
forced smile to the DELIGHTED GUESTS all around until-

The applause subdues to a silence, the faces fall in growing 
concern.

RUTH stands, the trickle of a nosebleed spilling down her 
chiffon dress.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. ALEXANDRA PALACE. LONDON - EVENING 1, 195924A24A

FREDDIE moving along the corridor, BEL on his tail, he is 
fizzing, on a high, excited-

                                  FREDDIE
                We are calcifying in television news-

BEL slides paper into a memo board in passing, hurrying to 
keep up with him, clearly wanting to tell him something-

                                  BEL
                Agreed. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Hell, martial law may have been 
                imposed in Poland but we ve got 
                footage of Prince Rainier on honeymoon 
                with his show girl. And Hallelujah 
                they are dining with the queen. 

FREDDIE opens the door for her-

                                  FREDDIE (CONT D) (cont d)
                We are the nightly dose of reassurance 
                that everything is alright in the 
                world. 

BEL smiles, with a growing urgency, clearly with something to 
say. 

                                  BEL
                    Agreed...agreed..agreed.

                                  FREDDIE
                Because some edict sent down from God 
                knows where tells us what we broadcast 
                and how we broadcast.  

BEL smiles, FREDDIE smiles, both infectious and a little 
giddy.  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    12A

  CONTINUED:24A24A

                                  FREDDIE (CONT D) (cont d)
                We are going to escape. 

                                  BEL
                Yes but Freddie...

                                  FREDDIE
                Don t worry, Moneypenny. I ll put in a 
                good word. 

BEL s gaze wavers, she wants to tell him but can t.

                                  BEL
                You re coming with me.

FREDDIE moving on, BEL with rising concern, hurrying to keep 
up with him, the moment missed. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                  Freddie...?
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    13



SCENE 25 CUT AT GREEN AMENDMENTS2525

INT. LOBBY. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 20172626

Distant laughter-

The jaunty song of the distant HOTEL BAND.

                                  BEL
                Freddie this is a new programme, this 
                is everything that we ve been waiting 
                for. 

FREDDIE looks at her-

                                  BEL (cont d)
                Working together. It s exciting. I 
                wanted to talk to you about your 
                interview tomorrow.  
                      (with a smile)
                Come on, stay and have a drink with 
                me..

                                  FREDDIE
                And miss all the fun?

FREDDIE makes to go, heading towards the distant reception 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                He ll be late. 

FREDDIE reaching for a Martini from a WAITER holding a tray, 
looking on at the distant party with growing dread-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                They re always late.
                If he s still not here by nine, come 
                and find me.  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    13A

  CONTINUED:2626

FREDDIE knocks back a drink. 

                                  BEL
                At least try and keep a clear head. 

FREDDIE reaches for a second drink hesitates on seeing-

                                  BEL (cont d)
                You are impossible.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    14

  CONTINUED:2626

BEL catches FREDDIE seeing her scouring the GREY SUITED MEN in 
a distant bar. 

                                  FREDDIE
                You know we re both worth more. 

RUTH just visible, through an ajar door, being introduced to 
more GUESTS. FREDDIE looks at RUTH, no longer listening-

                                  BEL
                      (calling after)
                Freddie-

BEL bottles it, shakes her head, dismissive yet inwardly 
kicking herself. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                Don t you be. Late? Tomorrow? 

FREDDIE nods, distracted, moving off to a distant CAMERAMAN 
and SOUND ENGINEER bored and waiting, cocktails in hand. 

BEL waiting, heads off, taking a stool at the bar. She sits, 
waits, something she is clearly used to.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 1, 20252727

The TING of a fork against glass-

A lively party, quietened to a hush-

The cameraman focusing on ADAM LE RAY, capturing him through 
the lens-

                                  ADAM LE RAY
                It is truly wonderful to be able to 
                share our engagement with so many 
                loved ones. 

ADAM stands at its heart, close to RUTH, surrounded by FRIENDS 
and FAMILY, the GREAT and the GOOD. He turns to LORD and LADY 
ELMS standing close by- 

                                  ADAM LE RAY (cont d)
                Lord and Lady Elms, it is an honour 
                and a privilege to be joining this 
                eminent family-  

FREDDIE reaches out for a canape, stuffing it into his mouth, 
eyes catching on-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    14A

  CONTINUED:2727

                                  ADAM LE RAY (cont d)
                And so without further ado, I ask you 
                to raise your glasses to my beautiful 
                fiancee. We look forward to seeing you 
                all a week on Saturday.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    15

  CONTINUED:2727

RUTH, briefly glimpsed, smiling by ADAM s side. FREDDIE 
hesitates, oddly drawn, her eyes briefly catching his, a 
flicker of recognition. 

                                  ADAM LE RAY (cont d)
                Do cross your fingers and let us hope 
                the sun shines. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DRAWING ROOM. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 1, 20502828

An empty drawing room-

The distant noises of the party, far off-

FREDDIE goes over to a drinks cabinet, pours himself a whisky-

                                  RUTH
                Martini then whisky. Beware.

FREDDIE hesitates, seeing RUTH sunk in a chair, oddly broken.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                The hangover will get you.  

FREDDIE considers, clocking the whisky glass in her hand. He 
holds up the bottle. She hesitates, lets him top up her glass. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Are you hiding? 

                                  RUTH
                No...Yes. I hate parties. 

RUTH hesitates, drinks. 

                                  FREDDIE
                And I d just written  the newly 
                engaged the honourable Miss Elms was 
                glowing - 

                                  RUTH
                Hello Freddie. 

FREDDIE hesitates, smiles-

                                  FREDDIE
                Miss Elms-
                      (beat)
                Would you like to comment?

                                  RUTH
                Yes, if you pour me another one of 
                those.

RUTH holds up her whisky glass-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    16

  CONTINUED:2828

                                  FREDDIE
                I d say you d had enough.

RUTH stands, wobbles a little, FREDDIE steadies her-

                                  RUTH
                What is enough if it doesn t make you 
                feel any better?

FREDDIE hesitates, RUTH s sad pretty face jarring as she holds 
up her glass for more-

                                  FREDDIE
                How old are you now? Twenty?... Twenty 
                one?

                                  RUTH
                      (cutting him off)
                Old enough- 

FREDDIE hesitates, laughs at the absurdity of this line, the 
evening suddenly overwhelming him. 

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                I was ten when you left. 

FREDDIE deflects, drinks. He needs to go home. 

                                  FREDDIE
                  Well...congratulations. I wish you.. 
                the absolute best-

FREDDIE slides his glass down on the table, signalling his 
exit.

                                  RUTH 
                A conspiracy is nothing but a secret 
                agreement of a number of men for the 
                  pursuance of policies which they dare 
                not admit in public. 
                      (beat)
                You wrote that-

                                  FREDDIE
                Actually Mark Twain did but-

Suddenly a drip of blood falls from RUTH s nose.

                                  RUTH
                Damn-

RUTH searches for a handkerchief in her clutch. FREDDIE hands 
her his, one hand cradling her neck-

                                  FREDDIE
                Tilt your head-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    17

  CONTINUED:2828

RUTH leans back, FREDDIE s hand cups hers, pinching the bridge 
of her nose-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Pinch the bridge.

                                  RUTH
                I m sorry.

RUTH nods, her hand gripping FREDDIE s, tears suddenly welling-

                                  FREDDIE
                It s only a handkerchief.

RUTH suddenly looks at him, eyes searching his with quiet 
  desperation-

                                  RUTH
                You see it don t you, Freddie? You 
                always have. 

FREDDIE looks at her, bemused. 

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                The lies-

FREDDIE wavers, RUTH s quiet desperate despair oddly 
  unsettling-

                                  ADAM LE RAY
                There you are, darling.

FREDDIE looks up, seeing ADAM LE RAY standing in the doorway. 
He withdraws his hands. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Good night, Miss Elms.

FREDDIE exits, RUTH looks down, FREDDIE s handkerchief still 
in her hands, the initials F.A.L. embroidered in one corner.

                                  ADAM LE RAY
                God, you re drunk.

RUTH looks up, about to call after FREDDIE, just visible, 
  disappearing out into the lobby-

                                  RUTH 
                Not nearly enough. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. LOBBY. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 1, 21052929

FREDDIE collecting his coat from the cloakroom, brightens on 
seeing BEL-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    18

  CONTINUED:2929

                                  FREDDIE
                      (calling out)
                Bel-

FREDDIE hesitates, BEL entering a lift with her BANKER, his 
arm discreetly steering her up to another floor. A wedding 
band clear on his finger as he taps her arm.

BEL s eyes dart back to FREDDIE, pleading for his silence-

The glide of the doors closing-

                                  CLOAKROOM GIRL
                Would you like to take the lady s coat 
                sir?

The CLOAKROOM GIRL holds up BEL s coat, clearly on the same 
ticket-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (shakes head)
                I m sure she ll pick it up later. 

FREDDIE moves off, quietly irritated, wanting to get home. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. STREET. NOTTING HILL - NIGHT 1, 21303030

FREDDIE passing a gang of BLACK TEENAGERS standing on a 
corner, hanging out.

Two YOUNG WHITE WOMEN wheeling prams, lost in chat. FREDDIE 
steps out their way, carrying a bag of fish and chips as he 
passes-

A LANDLADY cleans the front step of a grubby B&B. 

A  No Coloureds. No Irish. No Children.  sign visible in her 
window.

FREDDIE steps into the gutter to cross the road.

Across the street, an illuminated cinema sign/poster 
  advertising-

Invasion of the Body Snatchers-

FREDDIE heads towards a distant run-down row of terraces-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. HALLWAY. MALCOLM S HOUSE. NOTTING HILL - NIGHT 1, 21423131

The click of the door closing-

A shabby hallway, neat but austere and thoroughly lower middle 
class-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    19

  CONTINUED:3131

The distant murmur of the television.

                                  MALCOLM OOV
                      (calling out)
                Hello-

FREDDIE hesitates, hanging his coat on the wall, knocking a 
photo of FREDDIE aged six askew. He stands with fishing net or 
the like, smiling between his parents on a wet beach. FREDDIE 
  contemplates it, straightening it. 

                                  FREDDIE
                      (calling back)
                It s just me, Dad.

FREDDIE picks up the fish and chips, moving through-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. LIVING ROOM. MALCOLM S HOUSE. NOTTING HILL - NIGHT 1, 21443232

Darkness-

MALCOLM LYON [late 50 s], a neat little man in shirt and 
pressed, if frayed, trousers, illuminated by the TV screen, 
lost in watching  Dixon of Dock Green . 

                                  MALCOLM
                Good day, Frederick?

FREDDIE nods and slides a packet of fish and chips onto his 
lap. 

                                  FREDDIE
                You should have a light on.

FREDDIE reaches for the lamp, switching it on. The bulb has 
gone. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Has Mrs B. not been in? The washing 
                up s still in the-

FREDDIE looks at MALCOLM, sees he s not listening.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                What are you watching? 

FREDDIE sinks down next to him on the threadbare sofa.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Did you see the news tonight? 

SILENCE-

FREDDIE, resigned, resumes eating chips, turning back to watch 
the TV.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    20

  CONTINUED:3232

                                  MALCOLM
                      (beat)
                The usual rubbish. 

FREDDIE s gaze wavers, a familiar sting. 

                                  MALCOLM (cont d)
                How s that nice girl? 

                                  FREDDIE
                Miss Rowley. She s-

FREDDIE stops, suddenly at a loss-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                ...fine.

They sit and eat in silence. MALCOLM suddenly turns and looks 
at FREDDIE as if for the first time. 

                                  MALCOLM
                Good day, Frederick?

FREDDIE hesitates, nods, used to this eternal loop. FREDDIE 
looks at MALCOLM, already lost, back in his television 
programme. FREDDIE reaches for the crossword, filling in the 
final clue. 

                                  DIXON ON TV
                Look, will you leave this with me for 
                a day or so? 

FREDDIE looks down, suddenly clocking the cuff of his shirt, 
still spotted with RUTH s blood. 

The TICK TICK of a carriage clock on a mantelpiece-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. MORTUARY. POLICE STATION. NORTH LONDON - NIGHT 1, 21473333

A cold dark mortuary-

PETER DARRALL s body lies on a marble slab, a savage wound to 
his neck just visible.

                                  DIXON ON TV 
                I just want to give it some thought-

A closer inspection reveals every seam of his suit and shirt 
has been expertly cut-

                                  DIXON ON TV (cont d)
                ....chew it over. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

FADE TO BLACK    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    21

  CONTINUED:3333

The TICK TICK of a clock through-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION. BBC BROADCASTING HOUSE - DAY 2, 08503434

A clock edges towards nine o clock-

BEL stands underneath it, eyeing the time with growing concern 
until-

                                  BEL
                8.30...We said 8.30-

FREDDIE, dishevelled, tails BEL towards the reception, she is 
nervous, edging to say something. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Don t mix single malt with Martini. 

The PING of the LIFT-

                                  BEL
                Wonderful.

BEL smiles at the RECEPTIONIST as FREDDIE knots his tie- 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                Frederick Lyon to see the Director of 
                  Programmes. 

FREDDIE rifles through his pockets, pulling out several 
sheaves of hand written paper-

                                  FREDDIE
                I ve brought the manifesto.

                                  BEL
                That was written years ago when we 
                were very drunk. 

FREDDIE reaches for a pencil, scribbling something down.

                                  FREDDIE
                You were drunk. I was sober.
                      (reading)
                You ve put three  t s  in topicality.

                                  RECEPTIONIST
                7th floor.

FREDDIE already making his way over to distant lifts-

                                  BEL
                      (calling after)
                Lyon-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    22

  CONTINUED:3434

BEL hurries after him- 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. LIFT. BBC BROADCASTING HOUSE - DAY 2, 08543535

FREDDIE entering the lift, scratching down a new line onto the 
manifesto, BEL close behind-

                                  FREDDIE
                Do you think I should start with the 
                Marx quote? 

                                  BEL
                Freddie you really need to focus now. 

FREDDIE scratches it out-

                                  FREDDIE
                You re right. Don t want to scare them 
                off straight away. Not when one is 
                looking to run-

                                  BEL
                It hasn t got a name yet...

The GLIDE of the LIFT rising-

                                  FREDDIE
                ...this changing face of television 
                news programme that hasn t got a name 
                yet-

                                  BEL
                I d pitch hard on balancing London 
                news with the provinces. It s 
                important that they know you are 
                interested in stories in Manchester, 
                Bradford, Leeds. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Why?

                                  BEL
                Because you need to show them..

                                  FREDDIE
                Show them what?

                                  BEL
                That you re familiar with the demands 
                of home affairs. 

                                  FREDDIE
                That s your job.   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    22A

  CONTINUED:3535

                                  BEL
                You need to keep your options open.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    23

  CONTINUED:3535

FREDDIE scrutinises her-

                                  FREDDIE
                Moneypenny your eyes look piggy when 
                you lie.

The PING of the lift- 

                                  BEL
                      (sudden)
                I m the producer. The new programme? 
                Clarence wants me to be the producer.

FREDDIE looks at her aghast until-

                                  FREDDIE
                Right-

                                  BEL
                Freddie-

Two GIGGLING SECRETARIES get in on the sixth floor, lost in 
their own chat. The lift ascends on. 

                                  FREDDIE
                      (deflects)
                How many floors up would you need to 
                jump from to really make it worth it? 

The PING of the LIFT- 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Four? ..Five?

FREDDIE looks at BEL with growing fury as the lift doors slide 
open-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Fine. You produce, I ll present.

FREDDIE turns, mind racing, quietly falling apart. 

                                  CLARENCE OOV
                There you are. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION. DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMES  OFFICE - DAY 2, 08573636

CLARENCE FENDLEY [late 40 s/mid 50 s], Director of News, 
stands as FREDDIE steps out of the lift-

                                  CLARENCE 
                Now breathe, Freddie-

FREDDIE nods, suddenly speechless-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    23A

  CONTINUED:3636

                                  BEL
                Clarence-

CLARENCE ignores her, clearly they are late.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    24

  CONTINUED:3636

                                  CLARENCE
                He is waiting but he has a packed day. 

CLARENCE s eyes dart to BEL as he leads FREDDIE towards an 
endless corridor, leaving BEL far behind. 

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                Later-

The swing of distant doors, FREDDIE and CLARENCE gone.

Behind BEL, a poster reads-

PERSONAL PROTECTION UNDER ATOMIC ATTACK. WHAT WOULD YOU DO?

An image of a perturbed housewife in her kitchen, her children 
playing close by, looking on with similar concern. 

BEL taking a seat in the reception. She sits, stands, waits, 
suddenly aware of someone watching her-

HECTOR MADDEN [mid 30 s], handsome, intriguing and everything 
that FREDDIE is not, smiles at her across a distant coffee 
table.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. BBC BROADCASTING HOUSE - DAY 2, 08593737

CLARENCE with FREDDIE passing photographs of Alexandra Palace, 
Lime Grove Studios, and Broadcasting House. A sense of history 
along the hallowed corridors of the Director of Programmes  
offices. FREDDIE blindly follows, struggling to take 
CLARENCE s words in. 

                                  CLARENCE
                We speak in full sentences. We listen. 
                We don t try any funnies. 

                                  FREDDIE
                  Yes..Right..

                                  CLARENCE
                Your reputation goes before you. The 
                good I have been able to confirm. The 
                bad was youthful recklessness, which 
                in your more mature years you have 
                left behind. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Clarence I-

CLARENCE taps his mouth, clearly nervous.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    25

  CONTINUED:3737

                                  CLARENCE
                Freddie this is my programme. It s 
                very important that I get the best 
                team and that you are part of it. 
                Ditch the manifesto. Bel told me.

CLARENCE takes a side glance at FREDDIE, taking in the 
familiar disarray. 

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                      (pointing to collar)
                Top button.

FREDDIE hesitates, nods, scrunches up the paper in his hand, 
binning it as he takes a left, following CLARENCE towards a 
distant office, trying to hold it together. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMES  OFFICE - DAY 2, 09013838

A darkened office, wall-to-wall walnut-

Mr DOUGLAS OWEN [mid/late 50 s] stands looking over a reel of 
film, black and white footage of Gordon Pirie, a tall South 
London Harrier, making history as he runs 5,000 metres in 
Norway, just visible projected on the wall. 

                                  DOUGLAS
                13 minutes, 36.8 seconds - remarkable.

FREDDIE blindly nods, looking to CLARENCE, adopting the same 
forced interest. DOUGLAS suddenly stops the film, rewinding 
the reel by hand.

                                  DOUGLAS (cont d)
                      (pointing)
                There. There...

DOUGLAS freezes the frame, one hand on the reel, the other 
jabbing the screen.

                                  DOUGLAS (cont d)
                Ballsed it. Left corner. 

FREDDIE and DOUGLAS peer closer, just clocking the boom.

                                  DOUGLAS (cont d)
                Bloody boom. How do we run that? 
                I want two men at Lord s when Jim 
                Laker bats next week. One to hold the 
                camera, the other to keep the bloody 
                boom out of sight...You play? 

FREDDIE scrabbles for words-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    25A

  CONTINUED:3838

                                  FREDDIE
                Yes. No. Do I need to?     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    26

  CONTINUED:3838

FREDDIE s eyes dart to CLARENCE. CLARENCE silently urging him 
on.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                I like football. 

                                  DOUGLAS
                Which team?

                                  FREDDIE
                Derby County. My mother was born-

                                  DOUGLAS
                So not really...

FREDDIE hesitates, momentarily at a loss. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION. DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMES  OFFICE - DAY 2, 09053939

The TICK TICK of a clock on a wall edging past 9am-

HECTOR and BEL sit waiting, BEL flicks through a magazine with 
growing irritation, time crawling by-

                                  HECTOR
                You re something to do with natural 
                history. 

BEL considers HECTOR sitting calmly, a cigarette smoking in 
his hand.

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                I heard a rumour they were setting up 
                a unit somewhere in the BBC. 
                I m a big fan of animals.

                                  BEL
                Let me guess. Accounts?

HECTOR hesitates, enjoying the game-

                                  HECTOR
                  Researcher. You fly out with a crew to 
                the Amazon Monday.

BEL barely looks up from reading her magazine, seemingly 
  indifferent.

                                  BEL
                Something like that. 

A PRETTY SECRETARY slides a coffee down on the table in front 
of him.  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    26A

  CONTINUED:3939

                                  PRETTY SECRETARY
                Do you take sugar?    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    27

  CONTINUED:3939

HECTOR smiles, shakes his head, stirs-

                                  HECTOR
                      (to SECRETARY)
                That s a very pretty blouse.

The PRETTY SECRETARY smiles moving on, BEL looks at HECTOR 
wearily-

HECTOR drinks his coffee, enjoying himself, eyes grazing over 
BEL s shapely legs. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMES  OFFICE - DAY 2, 09094040

DOUGLAS sits behind a sweeping desk, flicking through 
FREDDIE s CV-

                                  DOUGLAS
                Clarence tells me you are a brilliant 
                  journalist.

FREDDIE darts a look to CLARENCE-

                                  DOUGLAS (cont d)
                Give me tomorrow s news. 

                                  FREDDIE
                A lot can happen in 24 hours. 
                Eisenhower looks like he ll run for 
                another term. But that s obvious. I m 
                more interested in the underdog. 
                Rumour has it the young Mr. Kennedy is 
                a contender for the VP democratic 
                nomination but in newsreels, we don t 
                do scoops.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    28

  CONTINUED:4040

                                  DOUGLAS
                So sixty minutes, six days to get it 
                together. Seventh day it s out there. 
                Three slots. Tell me how it looks. 

FREDDIE takes a moment, he s got five minutes to nail this. 

                                  FREDDIE
                At the top, New Commonwealth 
                  immigration. 75,000 people arriving 
                every year from the colonies. But what 
                does it really mean? Martin Luther 
                King gives a public address in San 
                Francisco. The birth of the new Negro, 
                one who is not crippled by fear and 
                self loathing but driven by dignity 
                and destiny. Yet we don t even 
                challenge the fact that in every hotel 
                window we still without shame say  No 
                  Coloureds. No Irish.  

DOUGLAS looks to CLARENCE, silent, but listening, clearly 
impressed-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Second story. Macmillan and the credit 
                squeeze. Obviously. 

                                  DOUGLAS
                And third?

FREDDIE S eyes fall back on the projected image, the image 
just visible, frozen, the runner crossing the finishing line-

                                  FREDDIE
                13 minutes, 36.8 seconds. It s a good 
                story.

                                  DOUGLAS
                You ve got a boom tracking in every 
                shot.

                                  FREDDIE
                Seeing him cross that finishing line s 
                the thing. It makes it more real. 
                Seeing the boom. The mechanics of how 
                we bear witness. Because that s what 
                we do. What one tries to do. Reveal 
                fleeting moments in history, not with 
                apology, not as it is now, endless 
                static newsreel, a man who never 
                leaves his desk delivering the story 
                as if it is the dry five minute warm-
                up act before Hancock s Half Hour. 
                                  (MORE)    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    29

  CONTINUED:4040
                                  FREDDIE (cont'd)
                Of course everyone wants to be 
                  entertained, but while we are all busy 
                  laughing...Russia is aligning its 
                missiles and declaring World War III. 
                It has to be the hour you can t miss. 
                The hour you have to see.

FREDDIE racing and over-excited. 

                                    FREDDIE (cont d)
                Putting real journalists in front of 
                the camera sends out the message that 
                you are taking news seriously.

DOUGLAS hesitates, Freddie fizzing. 

                                    DOUGLAS
                So you see yourself in front of the 
                camera Mr Lyon?

                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RECEPTION. DIRECTOR OF PROGRAMMES  OFFICE - DAY 2, 09304141

BEL slams down her magazine, bored. HECTOR smiles.

                                  HECTOR
                I never understand women and 
                  magazines. They only ever buy them for 
                the pictures.

BEL looks at him, wavering on HECTOR s mischievous smile.

                                  BEL
                You re so right. And those things 
                called novels. Impossible. So many 
                words...

                                  HECTOR
                This is where I ask you for a drink. 

She hesitates, something dangerous in this game.

                                  BEL
                Sorry. I ve got to pack for South 
                America. 

The SWING of a door opening-

Footsteps fast along the corridor, BEL and HECTOR turn just 
seeing FREDDIE on furious approach, tailed by CLARENCE, with a  
face like thunder.             The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    
                                                                                29aA
  CONTINUED:4141

                                  FREDDIE
                Home affairs! House of Lords garden 
                parties and outbreaks of foot and 
                mouth in Keswick?   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    29A

  CONTINUED:4141

FREDDIE hesitates, eyes grazing over HECTOR and BEL with quiet 
suspicion.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    30

  CONTINUED:4141

                                  CLARENCE
                The audacity to even think you could 
                present this programme! 

                                  FREDDIE
                He asked for my opinion.

                                  CLARENCE
                And you gave it, very eloquently-
                      (hushed)
                  ...including telling him to stuff it!

CLARENCE spies BEL standing, looking on with growing concern.

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                      (to BEL)
                This is your fault. I said talk to 
                him, calm him down. I said he s a 
                  risk...He s always a bloody risk. But 
                you said  NO . You don t lead the 
                story. The story leads you, Freddie. 
                First rule of news. 

CLARENCE stops at a loss, furious and pacing.

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                      (moving off)
                Maybe you are better where you are.
                      (to HECTOR)
                Two minutes.

CLARENCE moves off, BEL looks at HECTOR with growing 
suspicion.

                                  BEL
                You re not in accounts are you?

                                  HECTOR
                No.

FREDDIE stands furious-

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                Mr Lyon. I am a big fan of your work.

HECTOR holds out his hand. FREDDIE looks at it.

                                  FREDDIE
                How exactly? I mean which bit? Of my 
                work?

                                  BEL
                Freddie-

CLARENCE suddenly appears-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    31

  CONTINUED:4141

                                  CLARENCE
                Mr Madden...My apologies...This is 
                Miss Rowley-

BEL turns with realisation to HECTOR- 

                                  HECTOR
                Yes, I know exactly who Miss Rowley 
                is.

HECTOR smiles wickedly, she s been had.   

                                  CLARENCE
                      (to BEL)
                May I introduce you to the face of our 
                new programme. 

CLARENCE looks pointedly at FREDDIE-

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                      (to HECTOR)
                If you d like to come this way.

HECTOR smiles, moving off-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (almost to himself)
                Christ, he s charming as well.

FREDDIE s gaze catches on HECTOR being greeted warmly by 
DOUGLAS. FREDDIE turns, the wind knocked out of him-

                                  BEL
                Lyon-

The PING of the LIFT-

FREDDIE enters, BEL close behind.

The magazine left half-open on a distant coffee table-

An advert for Marlboro or the like just visible. An image of a 
swarthy man clasping a cigarette between his fingers. It is 
ADAM LE RAY. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:


INT. LIFT. BBC BROADCASTING HOUSE - DAY 2, 09344242

FREDDIE stands, punch-drunk, BEL by his side-

                                  FREDDIE
                How could you do that?

The glide of the lift down-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    32

  CONTINUED:4242

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                How could you not warn me what I was 
                being interviewed for? 

                                  BEL
                If you would just listen to me -

                                  FREDDIE
                And I thought it was so sweet you 
                wanted to meet me beforehand.

                                  BEL
                It s still home affairs. You re still 
                part of the team and it s the team 
                that Clarence believes in. 

                                  FREDDIE
                What? You, me and Gregory Peck? What 
                is he? Oxford educated? Well at least 
                you re with your own kind.

FREDDIE looks at BEL, with disgusted realisation-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Of course. You find him attractive.
                You re pathetic.

                                  BEL
                It s you who said you are calcifying 
                in newsreels. Do you seriously want to 
                die there? The last job I got you. You 
                nearly closed us down because you 
                accused the then Minister of Trade of 
                accepting bribes.  

The PING of the lift-

A couple of GREY-SUITED MEN enter. FREDDIE and BEL continue 
their argument, if a little hushed.

                                  FREDDIE
                      (close to/hushed)
                He had. He was. 

                                  BEL
                      (close to/hushed)
                Clarence has championed you since day 
                one. He was giving you an opportunity 
                and you have just thrown it back in 
                his face. You could be even more 
                brilliant than you know, but you just 
                have to ruin it. A new programme, a 
                new era. And they want me as Producer. 

BEL pulls on her gloves, struggling with each fiddly finger. 
FREDDIE by her side.  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    32A

  CONTINUED:4242

                                  FREDDIE
                They re humouring you.

BEL inwardly winded, humiliation threatening until-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    33

  CONTINUED:4242

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                They don t want a woman. A woman is 
                difficult. Hysterical. And you can 
                never really find one who will ever 
                stay. A couple more years and you ll 
                probably want a baby and then-

                                  BEL
                Don t speak-

                                  FREDDIE
                Even if they don t say that to your 
                face then it is what they are 
                thinking. Anything else is your vanity 
                making you believe-

                                  BEL
                What? That I can do it? That I can 
                actually do this? Watch me. I have a 
                contract on my desk, just waiting to 
                sign. 

BEL suddenly looks at the GREY-SUITED MEN, listening to her 
  outburst.

                                  BEL (cont d)
                      (close to)
                What have you got?

The PING of the lift-

BEL exits. FREDDIE stands, not moving, letting the rest of the 
lift spill out around him.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DAY 2, 11404343

The THUDDER of a row of telex machines, keys frantically 
banging against metal rolls, spilling out reams of paper, with 
incoming news-

The PING of the lift-

FREDDIE steps out, crossing a run-down poky reception, spying 
BEL working at a distant desk-

                                  LIX OOV
                      (roared)
                Lyon. 

LIX STORM [mid/late 40 s], the BBC s leading foreign 
  correspondent, already in some rage, pokes her head out of a 
doorway. A cigarette smoking in her hand.  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    33A

  CONTINUED:4343

                                  LIX
                George wants to bump the VP Nom for 
                the Duke of Edinburgh at some-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    34

  CONTINUED:4343

FREDDIE keeps walking- 

                                  FREDDIE
                Not guilty. Mr Wengrow-

ISAAC passes, carrying a tray of teas. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                ...is on Royal Duty.

LIX, unamused, tops up her tea with brandy and drinks as 
FREDDIE pulls at a reef of paper from a telex machine in 
passing-

                                  ISAAC
                He does look very smart on his horse. 

FREDDIE s eyes absently flick over the list, his gaze briefly 
catching on-

Body of man found in North London, throat cut. Suspected 
    robbery....Identified as Peter Darrall...

GEORGE passes-

                                  GEORGE
                Copy in by four, ladies and gentlemen, 
                copy in by four. 

GEORGE stands looking at the incoming news lists, FREDDIE 
spies BEL doing much the same. They ignore one another. 

                                  BEL
                Plane crash, Nigeria, 26 dead.

                                  GEORGE
                And-?

BEL shakes her head-

                                  BEL
                Does your wife find you amusing, 
                George?

BEL moves off, reading through the news list. 

                                  LIX
                A doctor s been seen arriving at 
                number 10. Rumour has it he s unwell 
                again. 

                                  GEORGE
                      (already moving off)
                You know where rumour gets us.   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    34A

  CONTINUED:4343

                                  LIX
                Then Cairo?    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    35

  CONTINUED:4343

                                  GEORGE
                I m running the Bobsleigh at Bergen 
                then-

FREDDIE barely looking up from his news list-

                                  FREDDIE
                What to you is rumour, to the rest of 
                the world is foresight, Georgie. 

GEORGE stops in his tracks, calmly turns. BEL looks up from 
reading, sensing danger-

                                  GEORGE
                Done your copy for the Elms  
                engagement yet, Mr Lyon?  

FREDDIE looks up, holding GEORGE s gaze with quiet challenge. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Not remotely.

                                  GEORGE
                I have any number of men who would 
                happily fill your post Mr Lyon -

The tension bristles, stilling all to a silence- 

                                  FREDDIE
                Is that a threat? 

GEORGE does not waver. BEL looks at FREDDIE, desperately 
wanting to shut him up but-

                                  LIX
                      (aside)
                Hush now my boy.

FREDDIE turns in a fury-

                                  GEORGE
                Four o clock. No Eden. No Cairo.  

BEL looks on, looking back, watching GEORGE head off down the 
corridor.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DAY 2, 11524444

FREDDIE sinks down in front of his desk, a sense of a 
  makeshift office in the corner. His eyes absently graze over 
the collage of conspiracy theories and bleak news articles, 
mushroom bombs and images of Hiroshima vying for attention 
with smiling images of a winning match for Derby County and 
alien sightings in Utah pinned to the wall.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    36

  CONTINUED:4444

FREDDIE scoops up a well-thumbed copy of Diamonds Are Forever 
by Ian Fleming resting on his desk. He absently flicks through 
it- 

                                  LIX
                She left it for you.

FREDDIE looks over at BEL, just taking a seat at a distant 
desk. He looks back at the book hating himself, deflects to 
LIX across the corridor, just sinking down in front of her 
desk. 

                                  FREDDIE
                They could have at least offered me 
                foreign affairs.

                                  LIX
                Already taken.

FREDDIE looks at LIX with sudden realisation. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Traitor. 

LIX smiles, tapping another cigarette on her desk. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                I want my desk back. 

                                  LIX
                As I recall I won this desk. 

                                  FREDDIE
                You scored your cards. 

                                  LIX
                Didn t need to, sweetheart. 

FREDDIE looks beyond, BEL just visible heading out. 

                                  LIX (cont d)
                      (close to/passing)
                You have absolutely no poker face. 

FREDDIE wavers, LIX has got him. 

FREDDIE s eyes graze frantically over the news list. Nothing. 
He scoops up the copy of Diamonds Are Forever. He flicks it 
open, eyes recognising BEL s familiar hand, funny comments 
written for his benefit in the margin. 

                                  ISAAC
                Mr Lyon, there s a lady to see you.

FREDDIE looks up, with surprise on seeing-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    37

  CONTINUED:4444

                                  ISAAC (cont d)
                She said you re old friends. 

RUTH seated in a distant corridor. She looks the image of the 
modern young teenager, in pumps, leggings and heavy leopard 
print coat, checking her lipstick in a tiny compact. 

FREDDIE looks down at the copy of Diamonds Are Forever in his 
hand, shoving it across his desk as he exits.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DAY 2, 11594545

A corridor, FREDDIE stands buying a cup of tea for RUTH from a 
trolley. He hands the cup and saucer to RUTH, a wrapped sugar 
cube resting in the saucer. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Nice coat. 

RUTH smiles, bundled up in her coat, oddly out of place. He 
sits down next to her, drinking his tea.  

                                  RUTH
                Mother hates it. I wear it to annoy 
                her. 

Two STIFF-LOOKING SECRETARIES pass, lost in hushed 
  conversation.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                Fashion is a terrible evil, Freddie. 
                You wouldn t believe the awful things 
                one has to do in the name of beauty. 
                The hats, the gloves, the underwear. 
                The way it stifles you. One needs to 
                find tiny acts of rebellion where one 
                can.

                                  FREDDIE
                      (laughs)
                Is this a joke?

RUTH smiles, sliding her cup and saucer onto a nearby 
  windowsill. 

                                  RUTH
                That s funny. Most people think I m 
                too serious. 

RUTH reaches in her bag for a packet of cigarettes. She offers 
one to FREDDIE. He declines. She taps a cigarette against the 
box, lights, smokes.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    38

  CONTINUED:4545

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                You re so serious. Don t take life so 
                seriously. Well I find it very serious 
                indeed. The world. 

                                  FREDDIE
                You have grown up. 

                                  RUTH
                Don t patronise me. 
                      (silence)
                Why didn t you ever reply to my 
                letters?
                      (silence)
                It didn t matter. I ve kept up with 
                what you are doing. Read your odd 
                articles-

                                  FREDDIE
                Well then that makes you quite unique. 

                                  RUTH
                I even found a short story you wrote 
                in The Listener which I may add was 
                not very good. Though I suppose the 
                novel is perhaps still the last domain 
                of the free mind, where they can t 
                tell you what to think, what to say. 
                That and art I suppose.

                                  FREDDIE
                They? Who are they? What are you 
                talking about? 

RUTH s eyes dart over to a distant office of GREY SUITS lost 
in muted stiff conversation. 

                                  RUTH
                They are everywhere. Here in this 
                building. Out on the street. In your 
                office. They even control what you 
                write. 

RUTH falters, a group of TYPISTS pass, lost in giggling 
  conversation. RUTH s eyes dart around her, she moves in 
closer, fingers playing with a sugar wrapper scrunched in the 
saucer of her cup. 

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                Have you heard of Peter Darrall? He 
                is...was one of the leading political 
                minds this country had. He was killed 
                last night.

RUTH silently turns the sugar wrapper between her fingers as 
she smokes.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    39

  CONTINUED:4545

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                It will be reported in the evening 
                papers as a robbery. It wasn t. There 
                will be no investigation. Even those 
                who loved him the most will be told to 
                forget him. They will weave a web of 
                deceitful lies-

FREDDIE laughs-

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                You think it s ridiculous? I wish it 
                were. 
                      (close to)
                I want you to find out why he was 
                  murdered. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Go to the police-
                      (seeing look)
                I am not the right person-

                                  RUTH
                Yes you are. You are a man. And the 
                world listens to men. 

RUTH reaches out, touches FREDDIE s hand.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                You think you live in a democracy, you 
                think this country stands for freedom 
                of speech? It does not. 

RUTH releases her grip on FREDDIE.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                I never forgot you, Freddie. 

RUTH stubs out her cigarette, eyes flicking to the clock. 

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                No-

FREDDIE makes to stand-

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                ...I ll make my own way out.

RUTH leans in close to FREDDIE, her lips brushing his cheek, 
seemingly saying goodbye.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                      (close to)
                They will kill me if they know I am 
                talking to you.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    40

  CONTINUED:4545

FREDDIE watches RUTH exit, disappearing down an endless 
corridor, passing a GRIP in conversation with an ELECTRICIAN 
by a doorway.

FREDDIE looks down at the cup and saucer resting on the 
  windowsill. The sugar wrapper, lies in the saucer, artfully 
folded into-

A perfect tiny paper rose. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DAY 2, 12214646

The thudder of the telex machine-

FREDDIE, one finger tracing along the wire service news feeds 
spilling out of the machines, frustrated, moving on.

FREDDIE rifles through the chaos of his desk, LIX puffs on her 
cigarette, lost in her own work-

                                  FREDDIE
                  Man...stabbed...North London...Did you 
                see it? Came in this morning? 
                  Peter...His name was Peter something- 

ISAAC hands FREDDIE a piece of paper, FREDDIE s eyes scanning 
down the list until-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                      (almost to himself)
                Throat slashed. 

FREDDIE already reaching for his coat-

                                  GEORGE
                      (in passing/calling after)
                We don t report gangland spats. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BENTLEY'S RESTAURANT. LONDON - DAY 2, 13004747

A lively restaurant, BEL crossing towards a distant table, 
suddenly seeing HECTOR segueing close to her, on the same 
route-

                                  HECTOR
                Did he forgive you?

BEL looks at HECTOR sharply-

                                  BEL
                Who?

                                  HECTOR
                Mr Lyon?    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    41

  CONTINUED:4747

BEL ignores him, smiling at CLARENCE, as they approach his 
table.

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                You really should have told him.

                                  BEL
                      (aside)
                He s a big boy.

CLARENCE is already standing, to greet them-

                                  CLARENCE
                You found one another.

HECTOR pulls BEL s chair out. She hesitates, sits-

                                  CLARENCE (cont d)
                Douglas is on his way. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:


INT. RECEPTION. POLICE STATION. HIGHGATE - DAY 2, 13054848

A dingy police reception-

A WOMAN juggles a wailing BABY in a sodden nappy.

A DRUNK mutters to himself.

A poster on the wall warns BE CAREFUL SOMEONE S LISTENING with 
an image of two suited men on a tube train, one clearly 
listening in on the other s conversation, one ear trained. 

The POLICE OFFICER at the reception looks away, trying to 
avoid Freddie-

                                  FREDDIE
                Alright Charlie? 

FREDDIE takes a scrap of paper, a rolled pound note just 
visible, which FREDDIE slides underneath-

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                No-

The POLICE OFFICER considers, the pound note tempting-

                                  FREDDIE
                Suspected robbery. Came in last night. 

The POLICE OFFICER looks down, reads FREDDIE s scrawl-

It reads-

Take the money or the baby gets it.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    42

  CONTINUED:4848

The POLICE OFFICER looks at FREDDIE, discreetly taking the 
note-

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                      (hushed)
                Plain clothes were in an hour ago. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BENTLEY'S RESTAURANT. LONDON - DAY 2, 13094949

BEL peruses the menu, a WAITER hovers pouring water and wine.  

                                  BEL
                Alexis Storm will be heading the 
                foreign desk. 

BEL mid-sip of her glass of water, considers HECTOR. He 
smiles, playful. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                She covered-

BEL flushes, aware of HECTOR quietly studying her. She forces 
herself on-

                                  HECTOR
                ...the Spanish Civil war in Madrid, 
                broke the news in  40 that British 
                troops had arrived in France.

BEL hesitates, quietly impressed-

                                  BEL
                Her network of stringers is extensive 
                in Europe, the Middle East, Africa-

                                  HECTOR
                I am presuming you have resolved the 
                issue of the home desk-

                                  CLARENCE
                There are a number of faces in the 
                frame...

                                  BEL
                Clarence, I know Freddie was not at 
                his best today-

CLARENCE studies his menu, yet BEL is not giving up. 

                                  CLARENCE
                You don t need him.

                                  BEL
                He s passionate.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    43

  CONTINUED:4949

                                  CLARENCE
                He s dangerous.

                                  HECTOR
                There s that very nice chap on that 
                Sunday news review. He might be an 
                idea.

                                  BEL
                No-

HECTOR smiles, surprised by the fire-

                                  BEL (cont d)
                He s infuriating and outspoken but he 
                sees the extraordinary in the 
                ordinary. I truly believe we need him. 
                I need him to make this programme the 
                best it can be.

                                  HECTOR
                And what is that?

                                  BEL
                The world that Freddie sees. When 
                you re with Freddie you suddenly see 
                the world as he sees it, in all its 
                  extraordinary detail. He spots folded 
                corners that the rest of us don t even 
                notice and he just can t resist 
                peeling them back. A train crash. A 
                labour strike and somewhere you will 
                find Freddie, away from the other 
                  journalists, talking to the last 
                person that seems to matter and yet 
                that s the story that matters most to 
                ordinary people. He finds them.

BEL smiles, giddy, quietly captivating HECTOR and even 
CLARENCE-

                                  HECTOR
                And you really think you can t do 
                that?

Their eyes lock, BEL clearly flattered by HECTOR s words. 

                                  CLARENCE
                Douglas-

DOUGLAS just visible, steady on the approach, taking a seat-

                                  DOUGLAS
                I hope you ordered for me.
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    44



INT. MORTUARY. POLICE STATION. HIGHGATE - DAY 2, 13255050

The dull chill of the mortuary-

The body of PETER DARRALL lies flat on a marble slab-

FREDDIE peers close, a young POLICE OFFICER keeps watch close 
by-

                                  FREDDIE
                How many men? 

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                Five. 

FREDDIE nods, eyes tracking slowly over PETER s body. 

                                  FREDDIE
                MI5?

FREDDIE looks to the loitering POLICE OFFICER, sensing his 
  discomfort. The POLICE OFFICER shakes his head-

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                Box 850, governor says. 

                                  FREDDIE
                SIS? You know you re someone when MI6 
                come to pay respects. 

Using his pen, FREDDIE gently lifts up the corner of PETER s 
jacket, revealing-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Did they do this?

Every seam has been cut, every cuff and collar, the stitching 
neatly sliced as if in search- 

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                      (going)
                No...Came in like that. Someone was 
                looking for something. 

FREDDIE considers, eyes lingering on the neat wound, perfectly 
executed on PETER s neck. FREDDIE s gaze falls on a watch in a 
plastic bag, resting on the marble counter. A wallet, 
including a library card and money-

                                  FREDDIE
                It wasn t much of a robbery. 

FREDDIE slips a hand in PETER s jacket pocket, everything gone 
but for a crushed packet of empty cigarettes.   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    44A

  CONTINUED:5050

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                Unless they took his last cigarette.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    45

  CONTINUED:5050

FREDDIE considers, pocketing them.

                                  POLICE OFFICER
                Five minutes. We re done.

FREDDIE considers, he absently leans over, turns off a 
dripping tap. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Yes we re done.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BENTLEY S RESTAURANT. LONDON - DAY 2, 13405151

The aftermath of lunch-

                                  CLARENCE
                McCain s in.

HECTOR darts a look over to a distant table, ANGUS MCCAIN 
[late 40 s], neat, if prematurely grey, lost in conversation 
with several GREY-SUITED MINISTERS. He throws DOUGLAS a wave.

                                  BEL
                      (hushed aside/to HECTOR)
                One of Eden s press minions. 

MCCAIN stands, ready to make an approach. 

                                  CLARENCE
                      (aside)
                Christ, he s coming over.

                                  DOUGLAS
                Leave it to me.

DOUGLAS smiles, taking ANGUS s outstretched hand-

                                  DOUGLAS (cont d)
                So this is how Westminster feeds you?

MCCAIN already moving on to CLARENCE to shake his hand-

                                  MCCAIN
                Clarence. What a gathering this is. Mr 
                Madden-

HECTOR smiles, surprised-

                                  HECTOR
                Yes.

MCCAIN shakes hands moving on-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    45A

  CONTINUED:5151

                                  MCCAIN
                Miss Rowley. I almost didn t see you 
                there. 
                                  (MORE)    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    46

  CONTINUED:5151
                                  MCCAIN (cont'd)
                You did that lovely piece  At Home 
                With Lady Eden . My wife so enjoyed 
                it. 

                                  BEL
                Prime Minister Eden s in good health?

                                  MCCAIN
                He is, thank you. 

                                  BEL
                Only I hear he has been unwell again.

                                  MCCAIN
                Miss Rowley, such maternal instincts, 
                you do seem so wasted in news. 

BEL s bites her tongue, silent as MCCAIN turns his attention 
back to DOUGLAS-

                                  MCCAIN (cont d)
                I was hoping I d see you today. 
                Michael was very keen to have a word. 
                Pandit Nehru s coming into town. I ve 
                had Barton on the phone banging on 
                wanting an interview for weeks. I told 
                him, sorry BBC gets first dibs. 

The ripple of male laughter; BEL looks on, unsettled.

                                  MCCAIN (cont d)
                Are we celebrating?

DOUGLAS throws a smile and a wave, getting up to join a 
distant gathering of WESTMINSTER MINISTERS. 

                                  DOUGLAS (CONT D)
                ...We re launching a topical news 
                programme-

MCCAIN wavers, unsettled-

                                  MCCAIN
                Really? Marvellous. Does it have a 
                name yet?

                                  DOUGLAS (CONT D)
                Working on it. Mr Madden will present 
                it, Clarence at the helm and Miss 
                Rowley as Producer.

                                  MCCAIN
                      (looking to BEL)
                That must have been a surprise. What a 
                coup Miss Rowley!
                                  (MORE)  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    46A

  CONTINUED:5151
                                  MCCAIN (cont'd)
                      (moving off)
                Douglas I must introduce your team to-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    47

  CONTINUED:5151

DOUGLAS smiles on seeing a familiar MINISTER, offering a 
discreet wave.

                                  MCCAIN (cont d)
                Clarence, now second to left is the 
                man you ll want to talk to.

MCCAIN smiles escoring CLARENCE and DOUGLAS across the room-

                                  MCCAIN (cont d)
                      (calling back)
                Mr Madden? 

HECTOR nods, eyes darting to BEL, MCCAIN ignoring BEL. 

                                  HECTOR
                Of course. Miss Rowley will you-

BEL shrugs smiles-

HECTOR follows CLARENCE across the room, leaving BEL seated on 
her own. The loud GUFFAW of male laughter. BEL sits quietly 
  stinging. She looks around the room, eyes quietly watching-

TWO PRETTY WIVES lost in lunch, heavy diamonds on their 
fingers.

And then table after table of MEN. 

BEL sinks a little, sips her water, clinging onto a waning 
  confidence, with quiet defiance. HECTOR looks back, clocking 
her alone.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. LOBBY. BENTLEY S RESTAURANT. LONDON - DAY 2, 14145252

A muted lobby-

BEL waits for the CLOAKROOM ASSISTANT to get her coat-

                                  BEL
                      (to CLOAKROOM ASSISTANT)
                It s the blue-

A distant drawing room, DOUGLAS, McCAIN, CLARENCE and OTHERS 
lost in smoking and port. 

                                  HECTOR
                You left it on the table. 

HECTOR stands, BEL s purse in his hands. He holds it out. BEL 
takes it, their fingers brushing in brief exchange. 

                                  BEL
                Thank you.   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    47A

  CONTINUED:5252

Distant laughter, HECTOR follows BEL s gaze -     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    48

  CONTINUED:5252

                                  HECTOR
                What about a brandy to celebrate?

BEL smiles, HECTOR follows her gaze falling on a sign overhead- 

                                  BEL
                I d love to but- 

Could ladies refrain from entering the drawing room, or the 
like-

                                  BEL
                What is it about you men? You always 
                need a tiny corner where we can t 
                quite reach you.

HECTOR laughs, BEL turns to go, pulling on her hat and gloves. 

                                  HECTOR
                Then we will have to take you 
                elsewhere.

BEL looks at him, with quiet surprise. 

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                I m good at smuggling contraband. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BAR. UPSTAIRS. BENTLEY'S RESTAURANT. LONDON - DAY 2, 14205353

An empty bar, closed from guests, chairs upturned on tables, 
in waiting for use another day-

Distant male laughter-

HECTOR leading BEL, peering around a corner. He scoops up two 
glasses and a brandy bottle from behind the bar. He pours-

                                  BEL
                This is highly illegal.

HECTOR slides a brandy glass across the counter to her.

                                  HECTOR
                That s what makes it so much more 
                enjoyable.

BEL hesitates, drinks, aware of HECTOR s quiet gaze.

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                How can you bear that man talking to 
                you like that?

BEL hesitates, unwilling to speak and yet-     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    49

  CONTINUED:5353

                                  BEL
                We d be foolish to make an enemy of 
                anyone close to government, Mr Madden-

                                  HECTOR
                Hector-

                                  BEL
                Hero of Troy.

                                  HECTOR
                Father with pretensions of a scholar.

                                  BEL
                And mother?

The swirl of brandy in BEL s glass, dangerously heady. 

                                  HECTOR
                Died when I was ten. 

BEL hesitates, something about HECTOR catching her heart, but 
she resists-

                                  BEL
                And I ve been out long enough.

BEL finishes her drink, sliding it down on the counter. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                Some of us have work to do.

                                  HECTOR
                So it s true what they say?

BEL smiles, quizzical-

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                You work twice as hard as any man and 
                none are half as good as you.

                                  BEL
                I enjoy the company of men.

                                  HECTOR
                Is it true you covered 
                McCarthy s Lincoln Day speech?

                                  BEL
                With a tape recorder that didn t work.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    50

  CONTINUED:5353

HECTOR should smile, impressed. 

                                  HECTOR
                I don t believe you re prepared to 
                give up this job for Mr Lyon. I think 
                you ll do whatever it takes. 

BEL wavers, quietly thrown, the air is crackling with sexual 
tension. He touches her arm-

                                  HECTOR (cont d)
                Take the afternoon off. You ll be out 
                by the end of the week anyway. 

                                  BEL
                I hope you re not going to be this lax 
                when I m your producer. 

BEL looks down at his hand still resting on her arm. He 
releases his grip yet his gaze lingers. 

                                  HECTOR
                Talk to Mr Lyon. 

                                  BEL
                I intend to but- 

BEL keeps walking, heading out. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                He doesn t listen to anyone but 
                himself. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

SCENE 54 CUT AT SHOOTING SCRIPT5454

INT. OFFICE. LCES. LONDON - DAY 2, 16155555

A neat office-

The click of the door, FREDDIE enters, taking in the room; art 
books covering the wall.  FREDDIE s eyes graze over a collage 
of newspaper articles including one of FREDDIE s own. One 
reads- 

Nasser: Friend or Foe? 

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                This shouldn t be open. They locked 
                it. 

PROFESSOR BECKETT stands hesitant in the doorway-

                                  FREDDIE
                They?  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    50A

  CONTINUED:5555

PROFESSOR BECKETT wavers-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    51

  CONTINUED:5555

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                I have an appointment with Mr Darrall. 

FREDDIE pushes a key, flat in his palm, deep in his pocket.

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                Professor Darrall sadly passed away 
                last night-

A swell of STUDENTS just visible through a wide window-

                                  FREDDIE
                I m so sorry- 

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                You knew him-?

                                  FREDDIE
                      (shakes his head)
                No, but I hoped to. You work in the 
                same department?

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                      (nods)
                Our paths crossed at this time of the 
                year-

FREDDIE looking out of the window at the small clutch of 
STUDENTS lost in conversation on the street below. 

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT (cont d)
                We have a number of international 
                students who take summer courses. 
                Mainly French-

A YOUNG COUPLE hold hands, laughing across a distant square-

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT (cont d)
                Though London is hardly Paris. 

The YOUNG COUPLE kiss-

                                  FREDDIE
                Oh, I don t know. 

PROFESSOR BECKETT holds the door open, waiting-

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                If you d like to talk to the bursar, I 
                could-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (beat)
                Was he married? 

PROFESSOR BECKETT s gaze wavers-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    52

  CONTINUED:5555

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                Professor Darrall?
                      (beat)
                No, I don t believe so. 

FREDDIE peers at some beautiful Arabic paintings on the wall. 
PROFESSOR BECKETT follows FREDDIE s gaze-

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT (cont d)
                He had a love of Middle Eastern 
                painting-

FREDDIE nods, hesitating on seeing -

A group photograph resting by a lamp close by, PETER DARRALL 
standing with a class of STUDENTS. RUTH ELMS just visible in 
the front row, smiling-

                                  FREDDIE
                Tragic. 

FREDDIE nods, concern growing-

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                Apparently it was a robbery-

FREDDIE looks at him with surprise- 

                                  FREDDIE
                You ve spoken to the police?

PROFESSOR BECKETT hesitates, quietly caught out. 

                                  PROFESSOR BECKETT
                I m sure it will be in the afternoon 
                press. 

FREDDIE nods, quietly clocking-

A cold sweat just visible breaking out on PROFESSOR BECKETT s 
forehead. 

They make to exit-

The photo of PETER with his class gone from beside the lamp. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. KIOSK. TUBE. RUSSELL SQUARE - DAY 2, 16315656

FREDDIE s eyes darting to the clock, edging past 4.30pm as he 
hurries down the stairs-

He hesitates, taking in the flight path of a passing COMMUTER-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    52A

  CONTINUED:5656

Going over to the newspaper kiosk, FREDDIE scoops up a 
newspaper, mild irritation on catching an article on the front 
page-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    53

  CONTINUED:5656

Kennedy Tipped for VP Nom...

                                  NEWSAGENT
                Alright, Sir? 

FREDDIE nods, searching through the newspaper until-

Two columns, a few lines just visible...

...murder of North London academic believed to be robbery...

FREDDIE considers, standing back to let another COMMUTER pay 
for a newspaper, buy cigarettes. His gaze catches on the 
brand, feeling his pocket, pulling out the crushed packet. He 
considers-

                                  FREDDIE
                Do you recognise this man-?

FREDDIE flicks out the photo of PETER. The NEWSAGENT looks at 
it, considering-

                                  NEWSAGENT
                Tall fella...Yes...Came in last night, 
                I was just closing up. He didn t have 
                no change. 

The NEWSAGENT rifles behind his kiosk, finally pulling out a 
silver cigarette case, handing it to FREDDIE, the initials 
 PD  just visible in one corner. 

                                  NEWSAGENT (cont d)
                I told him to pay me in the morning, 
                but he insisted I take it as security. 
                It seemed a lot for a packet of smokes 
                but-

Flipping it open, FREDDIE considers a lone cigarette inside-

                                  NEWSAGENT (cont d)
                He never came back. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DUSK 2, 18105757

A beautiful orchid flower arrangement newly arrived on her 
desk-

BEL plucks a card, reads-

  Congratulations, Producer. From a Hero of Troy.

BEL considers, quizzically, looking up to see FREDDIE just 
passing, pulling off his coat, clearly on the trail of a 
scent. He briefly looks over at the orchids resting on her 
desk.      The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    54

  CONTINUED:5757

                                  FREDDIE
                      (in passing)
                Orchids. You ought to talk to your 
                banker-

BEL, already fizzing with irritation-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                      (moving off)
                ...they really are an awful cliche. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. NEWS DIVISION. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DUSK 2, 18165858

BEL watching FREDDIE moving along the corridor, heading 
towards a distant desk.

                                  BEL
                George-

GEORGE stops, by a pinboard.

                                  BEL (cont d)
                You know don t you? I m leaving.

GEORGE deflects, pinning up a series of call sheets on a pin 
board.

                                  GEORGE
                      (seeing BEL s look)
                What? If I m about to lose two of my 
                best journalists I m entitled to feel 
                a little sore. You re a big girl, Bel. 
                So I ll tell you this for nothing. I 
                know because there are no secrets in 
                this place. You ll have your strings 
                yanked like the rest of us.

BEL hesitates, unsettled yet determined. 

                                  BEL
                No, George.

                                  GEORGE
                You ll see. 

FREDDIE stands in his doorway hearing it all- 

                                  FREDDIE
                There you are Georgie-

FREDDIE slams a sheet of copy into GEORGE s hand-   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    54A

  CONTINUED:5858

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                An eminent professor is found with his 
                throat cut and it s reported as a 
                robbery. No inquest. 
                                  (MORE)    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    55

  CONTINUED:5858
                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                No search for suspects. Every seam in 
                his suit has been cut. MI6 visited the 
                  mortuary. 

GEORGE turns to go, heading towards his office, absently 
reading the copy. 

                                  GEORGE
                You missed your slot. Programme s 
                filled. 

FREDDIE ignores him, hard on GEORGE s tail. BEL close behind. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DUSK 2, 18195959

GEORGE takes a seat at his desk, going through his work, 
FREDDIE takes a seat opposite GEORGE refusing to move- 

                                  FREDDIE
                When does MI6 visit the body of a 
                robbery victim? They won t even answer 
                my questions. 

GEORGE searches in his drawers for cigarettes, finally finding 
a packet, infuriated when he sees they are empty. He rifles 
through his pockets. 

                                  GEORGE
                Why would they? They re MI6. 

GEORGE finally finds a packet of cigarettes- 

                                  FREDDIE
                What? And we can never challenge that? 
                He still had his wallet and his watch. 
                Give me another 24 hours and I know I 
                can follow it up, George. 

GEORGE lights a cigarette, reading FREDDIE s copy, leaning far 
back in his chair. 

                                  GEORGE
                Though I share your desire to live in 
                the pages of an Ian Fleming novel, Mr 
                Lyon, I prefer to keep life separate 
                from a work of fiction-

GEORGE slams the page of copy back into FREDDIE s chest, 
reaching for his jacket, making to go-   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    55A

  CONTINUED:5959

                                  FREDDIE
                NO! This is happening now, right now 
                outside this building, down on those 
                streets, in this world and we are 
                doing a disservice to the public to 
                deny it. 
                                  (MORE)    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    56

  CONTINUED:5959
                                  FREDDIE (cont'd)
                You won t run this, but you ll run 
                footage of Ruth Elms smiling at her 
                  engagement-  

FREDDIE reaches out a hand to stop GEORGE by the door- 

                                  GEORGE
                No, film blew. That and the bobsleigh 
                both gone. 

FREDDIE hesitates, suspicious, GEORGE s gaze wavering-

                                  GEORGE (cont d)
                Eddie thinks there s something wrong 
                with the machine.  

                                  FREDDIE
                For God s sake, George. Have you had a 
                single original thought in your life? 
                Do you want to die knowing you were a 
                yes man all your life?

                                  GEORGE
                If you ll excuse me I have a news 
                programme to get out.

GEORGE makes to go- 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. NEWS DIVISION. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DUSK 2, 18226060

FREDDIE stands at a loss watching GEORGE disappear up an 
endless corridor until- 

                                  FREDDIE
                Do you know more people watch The 
                Sooty Show than us, George?

GEORGE inwardly snaps-

                                  GEORGE 
                You re sacked. 

BEL looks up from reading on the pinboard, eating her banana-

                                  FREDDIE
                Accepted. 

FREDDIE turns tail, heads back towards his desk- 

                                  BEL
                      (calling after)
                Freddie-
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    57



INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - DUSK 2, 18246161

FREDDIE kicks his bin, sending paper flying-

BEL stands nearby waiting until-

                                  FREDDIE
                Buzz off, Moneypenny. 

FREDDIE sits fuming at his desk, refusing to look up from his 
work.

                                  BEL
                It is true, I am asking myself why I 
                am doing this, when of course it 
                should be you apologising to me. But 
                that s what you do when you believe in 
                someone-

                                  FREDDIE
                You let me go in there-

                                  BEL
                I should have told you. I m sorry. But 
                home affairs is-

                                  FREDDIE
                Not presenter. Not good enough...

FREDDIE reaches for a box, hurling his stuff from his desk 
into it, ignoring BEL standing nearby. 

                                  BEL
                And most of all not here. 
                      (beat)
                Who else is going to have you?

FREDDIE turns his back, slamming the last of his things in a 
box. FREDDIE sinks down in his chair, oddly broken. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                You know some nice girl needs to 
                rescue you. 

BEL reaches a hand out, touches his, genuine, caring-

                                  FREDDIE
                        (sudden/wretched)
                Who? There s only ever been you.

BEL hesitates, the moment dangerous between them. FREDDIE 
looks away, deflects, absently slamming the last of his things 
into the box.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                And you re not even that nice.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    58

  CONTINUED:6161

BEL laughs, oddly moved-

                                  BEL
                Alright you sit here carbonating in 
                your bitterness, pulling apart some 
                stupid cigarette case-

FREDDIE looks up from snapping open and closed the cigarette 
case on his desk.

                                  BEL (cont d)
                ...when next week you could be-

                                  FREDDIE
                Before it was an offer I declined. Now 
                it is a pity post, which I just can t-

                                  BEL
                Won t.

FREDDIE finally accepts her gaze, his cold dark pride 
  unwavering- 

                                  FREDDIE
                No. 
                      (beat)
                And don t ask again, because quite 
                frankly, it s getting very tedious. 
                Your inability to stand on your own 
                two feet. But then I suppose one 
                should expect that of you. I mean for 
                all your strong talk, Moneypenny, you 
                really are hopeless aren t you? You 
                want to be oh so independent but you 
                just can t quite cut it alone. Why 
                else do you throw yourself at such 
                  unavailable men?

BEL hesitates, cut to the quick. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                I suppose I m just another one. 

BEL looks at FREDDIE, deeply injured and yet determined to 
smile.

                                  BEL
                Bravo.

BEL exits, FREDDIE looks on, hating himself, watching BEL 
return to her desk, pack up her things- 

Suddenly the phone rings, FREDDIE scoops it up, distracted, 
irritated.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    59

  CONTINUED:6161

                                  FREDDIE
                      (into phone)
                Yes-

Silence- 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BATHROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 2, 18276262

RUTH, perched on a toilet, naked but for a man s shirt and her 
underwear, smoking a cigarette. She looks far from the 
debutante of yesterday, eyes distracted watching a distant 
  television; ARCHIVE BBC FOOTAGE of the DUKE of EDINBURGH 
marching on his horse, the Queen looking on-

                                  RUTH
                There s nothing. They ve reported 
                nothing. 

RUTH hesitates, tears welling-

                                  FREDDIE ON PHONE
                ...I m sorry but-

A click on the line-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 2, 18286363

FREDDIE stands, phone pressed to his ear, a sense of the day 
winding up around him, trying to ignore BEL across the room, 
clearing her desk.  

                                  FREDDIE
                ...you were stupid to ask me to help 
                you and I was even more stupid to 
                think I could. 

FREDDIE sinks into his seat, suddenly exhausted. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BATHROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - EVENING 2, 18296464

RUTH s fingers touch her top lip, a sense of her growing 
distress-

                                  FREDDIE ON PHONE
                Are you still there?

The familiar trickle of blood from her nose, RUTH raises up 
FREDDIE s handkerchief to her nose, FREDDIE F.A.L intials 
clear-

                                  RUTH
                      (nods)
                Yes.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    60

  CONTINUED:6464

RUTH s tears pouring down her face, fighting them back.

                                  RUTH (cont d)
                Two things are infinite. The universe 
                and stupidity. And I m not sure about 
                the universe.

                                  FREDDIE ON PHONE 
                Well if you re going to start quoting 
                Albert Einstein then-

                                  RUTH
                      (cutting in)
                Never give up, Freddie. Never. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 2, 18306565

FREDDIE turns to look at BEL, across the corridor, eyes 
constantly watching her, aware he is losing her-

                                  RUTH ON PHONE
                If it s something you truly care 
                about, believe in, then you have to 
                keep kicking back. Let the rest of 
                them give up if they must but if that 
                is being a grown-up-

FREDDIE looks across at a GREY-SUITED COLLEAGUE, weary and 
jaded and yet carefully ordering a row of pencils on his desk 
before heading home for the weekend. 

                                  RUTH ON PHONE (cont d)
                ...I d rather stay twenty one forever-

A click on the line-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (sudden)
                Ruthie-

The line suddenly goes dead-

FREDDIE sits, suddenly impotent. 

                                  OPERATOR OOV
                Sir, could you please hang up-

                                  FREDDIE
                Where is this call being made from?

                                  OPERATOR OOV
                The Claringdon Hotel, Sir. 

He slams down the phone looking up to see LIX standing in the 
doorway, a typewriter and a bottle of whisky in her hand.      The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    61

  CONTINUED:6565

                                  LIX
                When I was in France, there were these 
                men, I d loosely call them 
                  journalists. Never went to the front 
                line, never really put their head 
                above the parapet, terrified of 
                getting shot. Yet they wrote some of 
                the best battle reportage I ve ever 
                read, filching from the rest of us. 
                You re not one of them but you ll 
                never truly know, will you Freddie, if 
                you don t stick your neck out, get 
                yourself a bit muddy...

LIX slops a large whisky into a chipped cup on his desk, 
moving on, pouring one to anyone in passing, in celebration.  

                                  LIX (cont d)
                I dare you-

FREDDIE scoops up more stuff, dumps it in the box, sinks down 
on his chair. He looks at the copy of the day s Evening 
Standard resting on his desk, the crossword half-finished. He 
  deflects, reaching for a pencil, considers, suddenly defeated. 
His eyes go back to BEL, finishing up the last of the packing 
up. She moves out of her office, FREDDIE stands, eyes silently 
  following her-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - EVENING 2, 18326666

FREDDIE stands, watches BEL further down the room, piling up 
her belongings. He sips his whisky considering, spying a note 
just visible on LIX s desk. FREDDIE gets up, goes over, reads 
it-

Enjoy.

He looks across at BEL almost ready to leave-

                                  ISAAC
                Coming for a drink? 

FREDDIE snaps closed the cigarette case he is playing with in 
his hands, taps the cigarette on the desk. He sips his whisky 
looking up at ISAAC standing in the doorway clearly at the end 
of a long day. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Already drunk.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    62

  CONTINUED:6666

FREDDIE slides the cigarette behind ISAAC s ear in passing.

                                  ISAAC
                I don t smoke.

                                  FREDDIE
                Save it for later.

ISAAC hovers, suddenly pulling a sheet of copy out of his 
pocket.

                                  ISAAC
                I wondered if you d look at this Mr 
                Lyon. I d really appreciate your 
                opinion.

FREDDIE looks beyond to BEL, just scooping up the last of her 
things, lightly touching the orchids on her desk. 

                                  FREDDIE
                        (reading/murmuring to self)
                The tradition of Freedom of the City 
                of London dates back to the 13th 
                century when it attracted privileges 
                including being allowed to go about 
                the city with a drawn sword.
                      (wearily)
                Did George ask you to write this?

ISAAC nods, FREDDIE moves on, murmuring as he reads, quietly 
distracted by BEL just leaving, reaching for her coat, turning 
off her desk light.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                It s very...nice and clear.

                                  ISAAC
                It s boring.  

FREDDIE looks at ISAAC, sees this fresh-faced boy already 
tinged with years of future defeat.

                                  FREDDIE
                Yes.

FREDDIE looks out across the empty office, the last of the 
  GREY-SUITED COLLEAGUES heading home like worker ants.

                                  ISAAC
                Thought so.

ISAAC takes the copy, disappointed, shoving it into his pocket 
about to move on. FREDDIE watches BEL, she considers a yellow 
angelpoise light on her desk then leaves it, heading out. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    63



EXT. STREET. OUTSIDE ALEXANDRA PALACE - NIGHT 2, 18466767

The hum of a taxi waiting-

LIX just visible, the door open, illuminated inside-

                                  FREDDIE
                You forgot your lamp. 

BEL turns, surprised to see FREDDIE holding the lamp, ISAAC 
close by. FREDDIE shoves it in after her-

                                  BEL
                        (reluctantly taking it)
                It s just a piece of tat I picked up 
                somewhere. 

FREDDIE clambers in after her-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. TAXI. OUTSIDE ALEXANDRA PALACE - NIGHT 2, 18486868

LIX smiles, looking at FREDDIE with growing amused curiosity, 
seated wedged in opposite BEL in the crammed taxi. 

                                  FREDDIE (CONT D)
                April. 1952. Your birthday. I bought 
                it at John Lewis.

                                  BEL
                A yellow desk light. Just what every 
                girl needs. 

FREDDIE looks to ISAAC, still standing on the pavement. 

                                  FREDDIE
                Isaac in. 

ISAAC reluctantly enters the crammed taxi, squeezing in next 
to FREDDIE.

                                  BEL
                What are you doing?

                                  FREDDIE
                We thought we might  come along for 
                the ride . 

                                  BEL
                Sir Douglas has invited us for drinks 
                at Lime Grove Studios.

                                  FREDDIE
                Goody. 

BEL quietly fumes, staring out of the window. LIX smiles.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    64

  CONTINUED:6868

                                  LIX
                Children. There will be tears. 

London skyline streaking past-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 192368A68A

The taxi carrying FREDDIE, LIX, BEL and ISAAC arrives at Lime 
Grove studios.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STAIRS/CORRIDOR. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 19256969

Distant laughter-

FREDDIE, BEL, LIX and ISAAC walking along a corridor. They 
stop, momentarily silent-

Through an open door.... 

The wide sweep of a studio, a set midway through being built-

  TECHNICIANS rig lights-

CARPENTERS hammer sets-

FREDDIE considers, watching as LIX and ISAAC enter, quietly 
  marvelling.

BEL hangs back, FREDDIE seeing this, a few steps behind. 

                                  FREDDIE
                What?
                      (beat)
                Falling at the first hurdle?

BEL hesitates, pressing her palms against her skirt, trying to 
blot the sweat.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                You can do this job standing on your 
                head, Moneypenny, and don t let anyone 
                tell you otherwise. Not me, not 
                George, not your stupid bloody banker. 
                You re the best  man  for the job and 
                you know it-

BEL turns, tears pricking, looking at FREDDIE-

                                  BEL
                If that s your idea of an apology-

A LIGHTING TECHNICIAN fires orders in the distance, FREDDIE 
and BEL entering, taking in the wide sweeping space-   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    64A

  CONTINUED:6969

                                  FREDDIE
                And after I gave you that lamp-

BEL hesitates-
                                                                                  CUT TO:    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    65



INT. SCENERY DOCK INTO STUDIO. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 19287070

                                  FREDDIE
                ...we ate at that terrible Chinese-

BEL shakes her head, weary and at a loss with FREDDIE-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                It s an anglepoise because you press 
                your face too close to the page when 
                you read and there s never enough 
                light. And you won t wear glasses 
                because you say your nose is too small 
                and with glasses you d look like a 
                  mole...Which you don t...wouldn t 
                ...They d suit you..You d look just 
                  as...fairly beautiful as you 
                are...It s yellow because...you said 
                no one wants a yellow lamp. So I 
                thought if I got you it in yellow then 
                maybe for once someone wouldn t steal 
                it off your desk. 

BEL oddly touched but confused by FREDDIE-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                I do give these things quite a lot of 
                  consideration you see...The devil is 
                in the detail...
                      (beat)
                You re right. George will never run 
                it. An academic, seemingly eminent, 
                has his throat slit on a suburban 
                street. Who wants to hear about that? 

FREDDIE looks at her, suddenly aching, needing her to 
  understand.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                But it shouldn t stop me trying-

FREDDIE looks to BEL, eyes quietly imploring, BEL enjoying 
this moment of victory.

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                That is why I am pulling apart a 
                cigarette case, that is why-

FREDDIE momentarily at a loss. BEL looks at him, playful. 

                                  BEL
                I want to hear you say it.

FREDDIE inwardly curses, clearly struggling-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    65A

  CONTINUED:7070

                                  FREDDIE
                I get first choice of desk. And I want 
                an office with a window. 
                                  (MORE)    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    66

  CONTINUED:7070
                                  FREDDIE (cont'd)
                And an assistant. I ll absolutely need 
                an assistant.  

FREDDIE looks to ISAAC, ISAAC hesitates, clearly surprised, 
realising he means him-

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                And I won t do the farming slots. 

A sweeping desk with two seats on a stage. FREDDIE nods to 
passing TECHNICIANS as he takes a look. 

                                  BEL
                And?

                                  FREDDIE
                        (struggling)
                May I accept the offer that I so-

                                  BEL
                Rudely-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (beat)
                ...so rudely declined?

FREDDIE s eyes fall on a huge programme logo, hands of a clock 
ticking, the words The Hour half painted, just taking shape. 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                The Hour?

FREDDIE turns to look at BEL-

                                    FREDDIE (cont d)
                It ll never run.

BEL smiles just seeing HECTOR standing in the wings holding up 
a champagne glass- 

                                  HECTOR
                Mr Lyon.

FREDDIE hesitates, considers the outstretched hand.

                                    FREDDIE
                Mr Madden. 

                                  HECTOR
                      (they shake hands)
                I look forward to working with you.

                                  FREDDIE
                Well at least that makes one of us. 

BEL looks at FREDDIE, with a warning glance.     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    67

  CONTINUED:7070

The pop of a champagne bottle, beyond-

DOUGLAS, CLARENCE, LIX, ISAAC and OTHERS gathered. 

FREDDIE looks to BEL. She hesitates. Scooping up a glass, she 
chinks with his, going to join them. 

                                  BEL
                      (whispered in ear)
                Welcome on board, comrade. 

FREDDIE smiles, sips, in silent truce.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO FLOOR. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 21057171

Later-

The impromptu party in full flow-

CLARENCE stands in the wings, watching FREDDIE standing, 
sipping champagne, taking in the studio-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (seeing CLARENCE)
                Clarence-

                                  CLARENCE
                Don t say it. New slate, new day. 

CLARENCE taps his cigarette against a silver cigarette case. 
It catches FREDDIE s eye.

FREDDIE looks beyond to BEL, laughing with HECTOR across the 
studio, his eyes catching on her leaning into HECTOR as he 
lights her cigarette.

The familiar flirtatious body language stirring FREDDIE s 
suspicion and yet also something beyond that- 

                                  HECTOR
                      (on the approach)
                You re always watching.

FREDDIE shakes his head, declining the cigarette-

                                  FREDDIE
                I find it helps. Otherwise one does 
                find oneself walking into doors, 
                walls, that sort of thing.

                                  HECTOR
                She said you were witty.

FREDDIE inwardly flinches.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    68

  CONTINUED:7171

                                  FREDDIE
                She s easy to make laugh.

Across the studio floor, LIX stands, with a smoking cigarette 
talking to DOUGLAS; once more FREDDIE clocks this, a seeping 
  realisation gradually dissolving over him. 

                                  HECTOR
                So tell me about yourself Mr Lyon.

                                  FREDDIE
                      (absent)
                No-

HECTOR hesitates, laughs, oddly wrong-footed. 

FREDDIE is suddenly walking away, CLARENCE looking on bemused.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO / SCENERY DOCK. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 21097272

Distant pop of a champagne bottle-

Far off down a corridor, ISAAC flirts with the PRETTY 
SECRETARY. This is SISSY COOPER[19yrs]. ISAAC helps her carry 
an ice bucket and glasses towards the studio-

                                  FREDDIE
                Isaac, the cigarette...the 
                  cigarette...that I...

FREDDIE suddenly plucks the cigarette from behind ISAAC s ear. 
He licks it, carefully unpeels the paper from the cigarette, 
tiny speck of spit, wet on his thumb blotting it to reveal-

A tiny corner of illuminated perforations in the paper. 
FREDDIE holds it up to the light, to reveal some kind of 
intricate pattern made up of these perforations, tiny holes 
puckering the cigarette paper. FREDDIE considers, eyes tracing 
over them with growing realisation- 

                                  FREDDIE (cont d)
                      (hushed)
                Bingo!
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO FLOOR. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 21207373

The party in full swing-

  TECHNICIANS have downed tools and are sharing a drink with 
LIX, DOUGLAS, CLARENCE and OTHERS. BEL and HECTOR look on-

                                  BEL
                So how did you know I like-?    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    69

  CONTINUED:7373

                                  HECTOR
                All beautiful women like orchids.

BEL hesitates, the moment is electric between them until-

                                  BEL
                Do they really fall for that line? 

They laugh-

                                  HECTOR
                Bad?

                                  BEL
                Very bad.

From across the studio floor-

                                  MARNIE OOV
                      (calling over to HECTOR)
                Darling, there you are- 

BEL s gaze looks beyond just seeing WALLACE SHERWIN [mid 
50 s], a distinguished looking man crossing the studio with 
MARNIE MADDEN [mid 20 s], pretty and chic, close behind. The 
way she looks at HECTOR, BEL just knows-

                                  BEL
                But it obviously worked on somebody. 

BEL turns, flushed and oddly humiliated, stalling for time a 
little. 

                                  BEL (cont d)
                That s your-

                                  HECTOR
                Wife.

                                  BEL
                Of course. With your-

BEL watches MARNIE and WALLACE as they are greeted by DOUGLAS-

                                  HECTOR
                  ...father-in-law. He and Douglas have 
                been friends for years-

BEL, angered, momentarily locks gazes with HECTOR, eyes 
searching, trying to understand, seeing a flicker of defeat in 
HECTOR s eyes.

                                  BEL
                And I thought it was because you had 
                such a pretty face-  The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    69A

  CONTINUED:7373

From behind-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    70

  CONTINUED:7373

                                  WALLACE OOV
                Here he is- 

BEL hesitates, HECTOR s hand briefly grazing her back as he 
smiles, ready to greet WALLACE-

                                  WALLACE
                The face of tomorrow. 

MARNIE kisses HECTOR on the cheek, smiling with pride. HECTOR 
looks back, holding BEL s look, helpless as the party swirls 
around them, watching as BEL shrinks back. All listen to 
DOUGLAS speak-

                                  DOUGLAS OOV
                      (raising glass)
                Ladies and gentleman may I have your 
                attention.  We are embarking on what I 
                hope is to be a truly exciting 
                journey. 
                      (raising his glass)
                To the dawn of a new era-

HECTOR looking beyond, watching BEL determinedly raising her 
glass.

                                  DOUGLAS OOV (cont d)
                ... The Hour  is coming-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 21557474

The murmur of the television-

RUTH sits, curled in a chair, wearing only a man s shirt, a 
cigarette clasped between her fingers, glassy-eyed, nursing a 
large G&T in her lap-

  Distracted, RUTH reaches a hand out, turning the dial on the 
  television, flicking between channels until-

RUTH considers. Suddenly it is all too unbearable. She knocks 
back her drink, eyes welling with tears, looking towards the 
bathroom-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. STREET. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22207575

Darkness-

FREDDIE crossing onto the pavement, the Claringdon Hotel 
glittering in front of him-

A sense that he is being watched as he enters, passing the 
DOORMAN. FREDDIE just visible heading towards the reception-     The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    71

  CONTINUED:7575

The scratch of a 2B pencil against newspaper-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO FLOOR. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 222975A75A

HECTOR standing eyes searching beyond, scouring the party but  
BEL has gone-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. CORRIDOR. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22317676

The ping of the lift-

FREDDIE stepping out along an endless corridor. He walks, 
passing endless doorways, stopping at the door of a suite-

He goes to knock and sees the door is ajar- 

FREDDIE tentatively pushes it open-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22337777

Darkness-

The TV illuminates the room, ARCHIVE BBC FOOTAGE of Elvis 
Presley just visible, lost in wild pelvis shaking for a 
screaming studio audience- 

FREDDIE peers around him, searching for signs of life. He puts 
down his folded newspaper, the crossword, half finished. 
Looking about him, he hesitates on seeing-

The seep of light from under the bathroom door.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22347878

FREDDIE taps lightly on the bathroom door-

                                  FREDDIE
                Hello-

FREDDIE hesitates, pushing the door open-

The rise of steam, FREDDIE peers through just seeing-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BATHROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22357979

RUTH hangs, a belt around her neck, swinging from a shower 
head, arms clawing the air, legs frantically pedalling. 
FREDDIE lunges, arms outstretched, slipping on a wet floor, 
  desperately trying to unhook her.   The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    71A

  CONTINUED:7979

Grappling, FREDDIE releases the belt, cradling her in his 
arms, desperately trying to revive her. RUTH gasps, eyes 
suddenly locked on his, mouth gaping, almost as if she is 
smiling, until-    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    72

  CONTINUED:7979

                                  FREDDIE
                  No...No...No...

RUTH, glassy-eyed, all life suddenly drained from her. A 
single drip of blood trickles from her nostril-

FREDDIE kicks his foot hard against the bath panel in 
  frustration, again and again and again. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. NEWSROOM. ALEXANDRA PALACE - NIGHT 2, 22408080

An empty office-

GEORGE pulling on his coat, the end of a long day, the last 
man out-

The phone rings-

GEORGE picks up the phone-

                                  GEORGE
                Hello-

                                  MCCAIN ON PHONE 
                Did you fire Mr Lyon-?

GEORGE wearily considers, FREDDIE s empty desk in the 
distance.

                                  GEORGE
                Yes, Mr McCain. 
                      (beat)
                He s someone else s problem now. 

The phone hangs up-

GEORGE flicks off his desk light. Darkness. GEORGE sinks down 
in his seat, sitting in the dark. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. OFFICE. WESTMINSTER - NIGHT 2, 22418181

A glittering skyline-

McCAIN just putting down the phone, considering the glittering 
skyline, a whisky in his hand. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. RIVOLI BAR. WEST LONDON. NIGHT 2, 2245 (SCENE REINSTATED)8282

An elegant bar-

BEL sits, alone at a bar surrounded by BUSINESSMEN, watching 
the ROUGED WOMEN working in couples, smiling and escorting the 
  BUSINESSMEN.    The Hour   Episode 1  Final Shooting Script 25 01 11    73

  CONTINUED:8282

An ATTRACTIVE MAN smiles at her from across the bar, an 
invitation lingering in his gaze. 

BEL considers. Suddenly getting up to leave, she reaches for 
her gloves, starting to pull them on until-

BEL looks down at her hands, suddenly overwhelmed and 
irritated with the effort of it all. She pulls off her gloves 
with quiet defiance, shoving them in her bag, as she pays the 
cheque.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. BEDROOM. SUITE. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22478383

FREDDIE moving through, reaching for the telephone-

                                  FREDDIE
                      (into phone)
                  Hello...Yes...I m afraid...the 
                  police...Could you call the police?... 
                Yes this is room 214- 

A tiny click on the line-

FREDDIE listens, deeply unsettled, looking around the room, 
the front door ajar, the world will never be the same-

Resting on the chair, nearby, the crossword half-finished, 
almost in waiting-
                                                                                  CUT TO:

EXT. STREET. CLARINGDON HOTEL. MAYFAIR - NIGHT 2, 22498484

Across the street, the DARK-HAIRED MAN just sliding a 
  distinctive BBC issue 2B pencil into his top pocket-

He slides the newspaper into his jacket. 

Above, the illuminated bathroom window. The DARK-HAIRED MAN 
considers, turning and walking away. 
                                                                                  CUT TO:

INT. STUDIO FLOOR. LIME GROVE STUDIOS - NIGHT 2, 23008585

The still of a television studio, The Hour logo just visible, 
as if in waiting, for what s to come.
                                                                                  CUT TO:

END OF EPISODE ONE